---
id: 722a607d-17d6-472c-b92d-96b74a6db594
title: On a Spiritual Level
aliases: [On a Spiritual Level]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-03-18T12:33:00+01:00
language: en
access: private
tags: [metaphysics, spirituality, own-philosophy]
abstract: 'This note holds my thoughts on how our "consciousness feels in our mind" shapes how we see and categorise the world.'
up:
  - [[2024-03-18-02-52-18|Metaphysics & Epistemology]]
prev-version:
  - [[On a spiritual level]]
modified: 2025-02-02T05:47:31+01:00
---

#a/rS

# On a Spiritual Level

---

I feel like that many misconceptions come from the way our *consciousness feels in our mind* and from the disparity (difference) of how we conceive things and how things are on a fundamental level. Everything that our mind forms (through the extended help of language [language as a logic forming apparatus]) is a conceptual picture, assembled by our mind using all our previous experiences, our character, but - more importantly - structured in a way that the human brain is designed of. What rests in our consciousness can be seen as the lollipop world that our brain assembled of the steel that cuts through flesh. Consciousness is by itself probably the most fascinating thing out there (yet) but is entirely based on concepts, everything that floats through our mind is a concept, an abstraction or interpretation of something that came in as an input or a result of a thinking process (I would not split this strictly in these two camps, for illustrations purposes only). This is where my comparison to a lollipop world comes from, the feeling that our consciousness creates in our mind leads to people thinking that there is a spiritual level in our existence, but it is only the reflection of this very lollipop world that makes it seem like it. Our brain is nothing more than a machine, a very complex one and nothing more than its components. Our consciousness is nothing more than the result of that machine and the output of the neurons and all the *fundamentally physical* processes that happen in our mind. I guess this is what I should stress, we humans and our minds are entirely physical, based in the physical and existing world, it is easy to remove our thinkings from this physical world and try to create a spiritual dimension but this is entirely a hoax.

---

## Look into

- Sapir-whorf hypothesis
- Physicalism (vs. dualism)

---

## Areas of Improvement

- provide evidence
- address common counter arguments
- organization (e.g. start with stating my claim, outline the reasons I believe it is true, followed by evidence that supports the reason, and end with a restatement of my claim and a summary of my argument)
- defining or clarifying terms (e.g. consciousness, physicalism)
