---
id: 9dc46ef8-4134-4d6d-8c39-8461d7f7fafd
author: Ben Jendyk
created: Friday, 17 November 2023, 03:22:00 UTC+01:00
tags: []
modified: Monday, 20 January 2025, 04:32:42 UTC+01:00
aliases: [End of the Day]
title: End of the Day
---

# End of the Day

--- 

The end of the day is part of [[Workflows for Certain Times of the Day]] and just as [[Start of the Day]] has the goal of streamlining the very beginning of a day, this concept follows a similar approach but for the end of the day. It tries to pick up all the lose ends left over and bring everything in order for the [[Categorise and Review and Adjust and Plan & Mindfulness|CRAP&M]] of the day (which could be called conclusion of the day). See also [[Segmentation of a Day]] (the 21:30 time frame) for a better ovierview of the position of this concept in the overall day.

--- 

## Process

> [!note]  
> mehr in logische Gruppen aufdroeseln

1. Gather the day notes of Drafts in Obsidian
2. Note the [[Time Frame Objectives and Key Results|TFOKR]] of the current day
3. Write the [[Gratitude List]] of the current day
4. Write the introduction of the current day
5. Write the conclusion of the current day
6. Clean up the time frame document of the current day
7. Create the time frame document of the next day
8. Write the [[Affirmations]] of the next day
9. Update Streaks
10. Update [[Timeframe Day Template]]
11. Backup of Obsidian
12. Take caseine
13. Brush teeth
14. Apply creme
15. Refill water carafe
16. Take out scale
17. Choose clothes for the next day

---

## Related Concepts

Next:: [[Categorise and Review and Adjust and Plan & Mindfulness|Conclusion of the Day]]

Prev:: [[Start of the Day]]


#pr/25/101/routines, #status/pending