---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 9aee6010-73e4-4c4e-826d-7576095e3e5b
created: 2025-03-28T06:12:14+0100
modified: 2025-03-29T05:46:50+0100
tags: [access/public, language/en, pr/25/028/crystallines, status/pending]
key-words: []
---

Part 1: The World and The Crystallines 

In a world unimaginably larger than our Earth, a unique array of races thrives, each distinct, balanced in strength, and equipped with their own particular traits. Competition and cooperation occur naturally, resulting in a dynamic, ever-changing world. 

One of these races, the Crystallines, is especially fascinating. Their physical forms are beautifully crafted from magical minerals, a humanoid design that exudes elegance and power. But their bodies are merely vessels for their true nature: their minds are composed entirely of magic. This magical consciousness can exist within their bodies or travel freely through the crystalline structures that make up their physical form.

The Crystallines are few in number, but each one is a force to be reckoned with. Their creation is a complex, resource-heavy process involving magic, making each individual incredibly valuable. Therefore, the Crystallines' population growth is slow, further emphasizing the significance of each individual.

The world beneath them is laced with magical lines, like a network of energy veins. Wherever these lines intersect, they break through the ground, forming colossal mountains composed of crystallized magic, known as Insulars. These Insulars act as the Crystallines' homelands, the places where they are most powerful and where they draw magic to create new individuals. Despite their enormous size, these Insulars are scattered across the world, making the Crystallines' territories appear as isolated points in the vast world.

The magic lines and the Insulars are not just power sources for the Crystallines; they are also pathways for their minds. A Crystalline mind can traverse these magical conduits, moving freely from one Insular to another. This ability to move through the crystallized magic gives the Crystallines a unique level of freedom and connectivity, allowing their minds to exist beyond the confines of their physical forms.