---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 7d07c2c2-e93f-4afa-a614-f93f5218baaf
created: 2025-03-28T06:12:19+0100
modified: 2025-03-29T05:46:50+0100
tags: [access/public, language/en, pr/25/028/crystallines, status/pending]
key-words: []
---

Part 2: The Society and Culture of the Crystallines

Crystalline society is a marvel of individuality and communal living. Each Crystalline, while a unique entity with its own personality, can seamlessly fuse their mind with others, creating a vibrant, interconnected community. This mind fusion is not a loss of individuality; rather, it is an expression of unity and mutual understanding, like the intermingling of colors that can still be separated into their individual hues.

Their societal structure is unlike any human societal concept. Each Crystalline contributes to the community by addressing any arising needs, be it material resources, knowledge, or skills. This communal sharing and contribution create an internal structure reminiscent of communism, where everyone owns everything, and every need is communally addressed.

Communication among Crystallines is also unique, enabled by their magical minds. Information, thoughts, and needs flow freely among them when they are near the magical lines or in the Insulars. This network of minds functions as a living, breathing repository of shared experiences and knowledge, enabling them to function as a single organism striving for collective prosperity.

Despite their individuality, Crystallines are not solitary beings. Their society is founded on a profound sense of community, facilitated by their ability to connect minds. This unity allows them to empathize deeply with each other, sharing experiences and emotions in a way that transcends traditional communication methods.

Crystallines are also able to alter the Insulars magically, creating portals that interconnect different Insulars. This ability turns their scattered territories into a seamless network of interconnected spaces, further unifying their society despite the vast geographical distances.