---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 7b8537f7-bd39-4caa-855a-31ba58c12b3a
created: 2025-06-23T23:23:10+0200
modified: 2025-07-08T06:07:48+0200
tags: [access/public, language/en, tf/quarter]
key-words: []
---

I want to clearly define my outer personality. Initially prompted by a desire for a coherent surface (and because I loved the character Askeladd of Vinland saga). I wanted to adopt a similar charismatic, always joking/smiling personality, with a serious layer underneath (and some serious outer moment), but I realise more and more that this is not really fit for my personality. I'm not really funny, and always smiling, trying to crack jokes or look confident comes as flippant or even arrogant in my case. While I don't have any fear (no social anxiety) talking to people, I often say too much and not thought-through things, making it even worse (besides, my face doesn't look as good smiling as it does serious, my mouth is too narrow). I'm also not a person others feel easy around, with easy smalltalk (about common everyday topics), I'm always grounded in big or foundational topics (say, no talk about sports/friends/what you ate last, but more about e.g. news/a rather technical fun fact/advice from me on a topic). I've come to realise that I'm a rather serious-minded person (in the regard I laid out before), not the easy-going, gregarious, charismatic person I was aiming for (I do have aptitude for language, generally, but a lack of easy-going-ness). I think I need to pivot in my outside presentation. I was thinking of a serious, experienced military officer kind of guy. One who has seen it all, knows human folly, always achieves his objectives in a serious way. A "benevolent authority" type of person. Please rationally assess first