---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 0e715d89-9ff8-4919-a4d0-829dc42d6ae3
created: 2025-03-15T03:49:35+0100
modified: 2025-04-18T16:55:41+0200
tags: [access/public, language/en, tf/quarter]
key-words: []
---

[1] (1) Early in the morning, when you are fi nding it hard to wake up, hold

this thought in your mind: 'I am getting up to do the work of a human

being. Do I still resent it, if I am going out to do what I was born for and for

which I was brought into the world? Or was I framed for this, to lie under

the bedclothes and keep myself warm?' (2) 'But this is more pleasant.' So

were you born for pleasure; in general, were you born for feeling or for

action? Don't you see the plants, the little sparrows, the ants, the spiders,

the bees doing their own work, and playing their part in making up an

ordered world. (3) And then are you unwilling to do the work of a human

being? Won't you run to do what is in line with your nature? (4) 'But one

must rest too.' One must, I agree. But nature has set limits on that, just as it

has on eating and drinking, and yet are you going beyond what is enough?

But when it comes to your actions, that is no longer the case, but there you

stop short of what you could do. (5) The reason is that you do not love your-

self. If you did, you would love your nature and its intention. (6) Other

people who love their own types of expertise wear themselves out with

their work on them without taking time to wash or eat. But do you value

your own nature less than the smith his metalwork, the dancer his dancing,

the miser his money, and the celebrity his moment of glory? (7) But when

these are passionately engaged, they are willing to give up food and sleep

rather than fail to promote the things towards which they are drawn; but in

your case, do actions for the common good seem less valuable and worth

less effort?