---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: bae7544b-7be0-4760-bc18-8a5a1871adbd
created: 2025-03-28T06:12:27+0100
modified: 2025-03-29T05:46:50+0100
tags: [access/public, language/en, pr/25/028/crystallines, status/pending]
key-words: []
---

Part 3: The Crystallines' External Relations and Resource Management

Externally, the Crystallines are a formidable economic and industrial force. They engage in business, finance, and industry, not out of necessity for personal wealth, but to channel resources back to their Insulars. The Crystallines establish companies, factories, trading networks, and even banks to achieve this, all to maximize the flow of resources back to their homelands.

Their business ventures are not limited to their own kind. They engage in trade with other races, striking deals, offering loans, and harnessing every opportunity to accumulate resources. The Crystallines' economic endeavors span the entire world, making them a prominent player in the world's economy.

Despite their global economic activities, their ultimate goal remains the prosperity of their homelands. They funnel resources from all their activities back to the Insulars, using their magic to transport these resources instantly through the portals they create. This approach allows them to maintain their scattered territories, ensuring they remain resource-rich despite their geographical dispersion.

Their impressive economic tactics and resource management strategies, combined with their internal communal structure, make the Crystallines a unique race. They balance their individuality and communal living with their external economic activities, creating a harmonious society that thrives amidst the world's diversity and vastness.