---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 8bc419ef-93b5-4b64-addd-f9f63c3adcb2
created: 2025-04-12T15:24:17+02:00
modified: 2025-04-12T15:37:43+02:00
tags: [access/public, language/en, content/book/non-fiction/self-help]
key-words: []
aliases: [Rewire Your Brain - John B. Arden]
title: Rewire Your Brain - John B. Arden
---

# Rewire Your Brain - John B. Arden

---

## Overview

---

## Key Takeaways

- you have to actually want to change for it to succeed
- Physical activity is helpful to combat depression
- Light is important to combat depression

---

## You Have to Try to Work Against Avoidance, Even Though it Makes You Feel Better

A paradox occurs when you avoid what you fear, because your fear then grows. In the short term avoiding decreases your fear, over a longer period however, avoidance allows the anxiety to flush.

You have to try to work against avoidance, even though it seems to make you feel better. Challenge the paradox.

---

## Yerkes-Dobson Curve

The inverted U means that moderate activation ., stress or anxiety) keeps your brain alert, generating the correct  
neurochemistry to allow your brain to thrive and promote neuroplas￾ticity and neurogenesis.

---

## Trying to Escape All Stress Will Make You Feel More Stressed When Encountering Something Stressing

This is why it is important to

---

## Stress Should Not Be Avoided but Managed

Mild stress is therefore useful, and it can be regulated, as Jane  
discovered. The brain needs a little stress in order to remember  
important events and situations; your job is to learn how to regulate  
the stress. A little stress helps to code memories. No stress means  
no activation, which means that you ’ re bored and inattentive, which  
in turn means that you won ’ t remember what you are experiencing.  
Too much stress, however, narrows your focus and is not helpful for  
learning.

Too much or too little anxiety is  
not useful in this regard. Thus, rather than shy away from anxiety,  
you should confront it and make it useful. C

---

## Some Stress and Little Anxiety Serve as Useful Motivators

Without a little anxiety, you wouldn’t get to work on time, complete projects  
efficiently, or drive within the speed limit.

---

## Repeating Emotional Behavior Can Set Your Emotional Foundation

If you are repeating sad behavior, [[Neurons that fire together, wire together]] , and when sad emotions stay at the front of your mind for a long time, neurons responsible for your sadness and other, unrelated, will wire together, thus setting an emotional foundation of more sad behavior in this case.

---

## The Following Types of Avoidance Contribute to Anxiety

The following types of avoidance contribute to anxiety:

- Escape behavior
- Avoidant behavior
- Procrastination
- Safety behavior  
Escape behavior consists of the things you do in the heat of the  
moment in an anxiety - provoking situation. You essentially escape  
the situation to avoid feeling anxious. Suppose you are in a room  
with a crowd of people and you begin to feel anxious. Fleeing the  
room to avoid feeling anxious is an escape behavior. Your anxiety  
increases over time, however, because your tolerance of it decreases.

f you escape instead of allowing yourself to adjust to even a little  
anxiety, you ’ ll eventually feel extremely sensitive to the slightest hint  
of anxiety. This is called anxiety sensitivity.  
Avoidant behavior includes the things you do to stay away from  
anxiety - provoking experiences. Let ’ s say that a friend invites you to  
meet her at the home of one of her other friends. You decide that  
going to the other friend ’ s home would make you anxious, so you  
don ’ t go. That ’ s an avoidant behavior. Consequently, your long - term  
anxiety will increase, because when you avoid situations that make  
you anxious, you never allow yourself to learn that those situations  
are really tolerable.  
Procrastination means that you put off things because you think  
(erroneously) that it ’ s easier on your stress level. For example, you  
put off going to the friend ’ s home, waiting until the very last moment  
to fi nally go. When you wait and wait until the last possible moment,  
you build up anxiety in all that time. You ’ re subtly teaching yourself  
that the situation was worth putting off until the last moment,  
because when you fi nally arrived, you were indeed nervous and  
tense. Holding yourself back from an anxiety - provoking situation  
builds up more anxiety than you experienced initially.  
Safety behavior involves doing or carrying things to distract your￾self or give yourself a sense of safety. Suppose you go the friend ’ s  
home and begin to feel anxious. To prevent yourself from becoming  
more anxious, you begin to fi ddle with your watchband to draw your  
focus away. That ’ s a safety behavior. Safety behavior allows you to  
hang in there and not escape, but eventually the behavior becomes  
a nervous habit, and by engaging in it you ’ re telling yourself that  
you ’ re too nervous to simply face whatever is causing your anxiety.  
All these forms of avoidance are ineffective methods of dealing  
with anxiety because they keep you from habituating to that which  
makes you anxious. Avoidance makes it next to impossible to learn  
to overcome the anxiety.  
Because avoidance results i

---

## The Emotional Tone and Perspective with Which You Describe Each Experience Can Potentially Rewire Your Brain

Te more you  
describe your ongoing experiences in a particular way, the stron￾ger the neural circuits that represent those thoughts will become.  
Your narratives can be positive or negative. Fo

---

## Increased Activity Lessens the Symptoms of Depression

Activity (behavioral activation) seems to trigger the same effort-driven reward circuits of the accumbens, the striatum, and the PFC.

---

## Excessive Cortisol Weakens Your Memory but Sensitises Your Emotions

Excessive and prolonged cortisol levels introduced because of the Fight-or-Flight mechanism of the body leads to a weakening of the hippocampus and as such your memories and adversary to a sensitising of your amygdala and as such your emotional response to situations.

---
