---
id: 57d5a4ac-eb1f-459d-ae12-0f705fef5ad3
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-07-12T06:15:00+02:00
aliases: [Starting Actions Adopting to GTD]
tags: []
title: Starting Actions Adopting to GTD
modified: 2025-02-07T10:45:20+01:00
---

# Starting Actions Adopting to GTD

Getting Things Done is a road map to achieve the positive, relaxed focus that characterizes your most productive state. I invite you to use it, like a road map, as a reference tool to get back there whenever you need to. Here are some final tips for moving forward:

- Get your personal physical organization hardware set up.
- Get your workstation organized.
- Get in-trays.
- Create a workable and easily accessed personal reference system—for work and home.
- Get a good list-management organizer that you are inspired to play with.
- Give yourself permission to make any changes that you have been contemplating for enhancing your work environments.
- Hang pictures, buy pens, toss stuff, and rearrange your workspace. Support your fresh start.
- Set aside time when you can tackle one whole area of your office, and then each part of your house. Gather everything into your system, and work through the Getting Things Done process.
- Share anything of value you’ve gleaned from this with someone else. (It’s the fastest way to learn.)
- Review Getting Things Done again in three to six months. You’ll notice things you might have missed the first time through, and I guarantee it will seem like a whole new book.
- Stay in touch with people who are broadcasting and reflecting these behaviors and standards.*


#status/pending