---
id: 83e57812-7881-454b-82a0-b829c4d142f1
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-10-31T12:48:00+01:00
tags: []
modified: 2025-02-07T10:45:35+01:00
aliases: [The Threefold Model for Evaluating Daily Work]
title: The Threefold Model for Evaluating Daily Work
---

# The Threefold Model for Evaluating Daily Work

> [!note]  
> while the note itself was created and formatted by me, most of the text is by david allen, the author of gtd

## List

- Doing predefined work
- Doing work as it shows up
- Defining your work

## Exposition

You may be doing things on your action lists, doing things as they come up, or processing incoming inputs to determine what work needs to be done with them, then or later, from your lists. This is common sense. But many people let themselves get sucked into the second activity—dealing with unplanned and unexpected things that show up— much too easily, and let the other two slide, to their detriment. In fact, much of our life and work does just show up in the moment, and it often becomes the priority when it does. It’s indeed true for most professionals (and parents of young children!) that the nature of their job requires them to be instantly available to handle new work as it appears in many forms. For instance, you need to pay attention to your boss when he shows up and wants a few minutes of your time. You get a request from a senior executive that suddenly takes precedence over anything else you thought you needed to do today. You find out about a serious problem fulfilling a major customer’s order, and you have to take care of it right away. Or your baby develops a serious cough. These are all understandable judgment calls. But the angst begins to mount when the other actions on your lists are not reviewed and renegotiated by you or between you and everyone else. The constant sacrifices of not doing the work you have defined on your lists can be tolerated only if you know what you’re not doing. That requires regular processing of your in-tray (defining your work) and consistent review of complete lists of all your predetermined work.

## Related Concepts

Same:: [[The Four-Criteria Model for Choosing Actions in the Moment]]

Same:: [[The Six-Level Model for Reviewing Your Own Work]]


#status/pending