---
id: cfafb250-82b8-4b15-bac3-d14f42fee8a2
title: Principles of Propaganda
aliases: [Principles of Propaganda]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-03-19T21:47:00+01:00
modified: 2025-02-02T05:51:53+01:00
language: en
tags: [propaganda, politics, mass-media, source/chatgpt]
abstract: This note lists general principles of Propaganda. How it works and what makes it so effective.
up:
  - [[2024-03-19-22-16-33|Media and Communication]]
---

# Principles of Propaganda

---

## List

1. **Appeal to Emotions**: Propaganda often targets people's emotions rather than their rational thought processes. Fear, desire, anger, and patriotism are common emotional triggers.
2. **Repetition**: Consistent and continual repetition of certain messages can make them seem more true. This can lead to a phenomenon known as the "illusory truth effect", where people begin to believe false information simply because they have heard it so many times.
3. **Simplicity**: Messages in propaganda are often simplified and streamlined to be easily understood and remembered. They often provide clear-cut explanations and solutions, avoiding the complexity and nuance that is usually present in political and social matters.
4. **Demonizing the Enemy**: Propaganda often portrays 'the other' or 'the enemy' as entirely evil, wrong, or threatening. This strategy is used to justify actions against the perceived enemy and to solidify unity among the in-group.
5. **Use of Symbols and Slogans**: Propaganda employs symbols, slogans, and other visual or auditory cues to convey messages quickly and make them memorable. Symbols and slogans can serve as a kind of shorthand for more complex ideas or ideologies.
6. **Censorship or Selective Information**: Propaganda often involves controlling the information that reaches the public, whether through outright censorship, selective dissemination of information, or by discrediting opposing viewpoints.
7. **Bandwagon Effect**: Propaganda often attempts to convince the audience that a particular viewpoint is shared by the majority. The idea here is to persuade people to join in because 'everyone else is doing it.'
8. **Appeal to Authority**: Citing prominent figures, experts, or celebrities can lend credibility to the propaganda's message, regardless of these individuals' actual expertise or understanding of the topic at hand.
