---
id: b35d51fc-5902-4c9a-8ba2-f3cb3126e0ed
title: Amusing Quotes
aliases: [Amusing Quotes]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-08-31T15:22:00+02:00
language: en, de
access: public
tags: [quotes]
abstract: This note holds quotes that I find funny to a higher or lower degree.
up:
  - [[2024-01-11-19-07-03|Quotes]]
  - [[2024-03-20-06-11-52|Humor & Comedy]]
modified: 2025-07-08T06:18:48+02:00
---

# Amusing Quotes

---

## List

> But from what you said, it sounds less like I've done a good deed and more like I've committed a felony.

> Forgive me, but I'm experiencing some worldly desires

> "Whatever I will become, I'll first kill you." Ashes said darkly as she shook the water off the blade. "With what? Faith and persistence?" Ursrook sneered. "That does sound like something humans would say.  
> "Is this your last resort?" Ursrook bellowed. "You want to kill me by sacrificing yourself. That's beyond stupidity!"  
> "I… won't…". "Won't give up? Diligence, faith, perseverance, and relentlessness are merely excuses of the weak. Nobody wants to die. However, those slogans won't change anything, nor will they help your race to live on!"

> If I were to be executed for treason, I might as well commit some treason  
— Mike Duncan, *The History of Rome* (Podcast)

> Völlig zu Unrecht verstorben.  
— Unknown (Redditor, on a post about a famous German translator that died)

> “I don't mean to brag but I'm terrible at doing chores.”  
— Red haired girlfriend, *Girlfriend, Girlfriend* (Anime)

> “Run, comrade, the old world is behind you!”  
— Unknown, French graffiti spraying to the protests of 1968

> “Coming soon to this location: charming ruins.”  
— Unknown, French graffiti spraying to the protests of 1968

> "Everyone's right and no one is winning."  
— Unknown (Redditor)

> "Dem hab ich die Milchzähne geputzt."  
-- Dogma (?)

> But that's just how confessions work - One side basically drops a bomb on their friendship and hopes for the best.

> Verrat ist eine Frage des Datums
- Pierce Brown (Mustang), *Red Rising*

> Deviation from the norm will be punished unless it can be exploited and repackaged as opportunity.  

> Two economists are walking down the street.  
> One sees a $20 bill on the sidewalk and stops to pick it up. “Don’t bother,” says the other.  
> “If it were real, someone would have taken it already.”  
> “Don’t be so sure,” says the first economist. He picks it up, sees that it is real, then turns to his friend and says, “How about if I buy you a free lunch?”

> This is one of the best parts about being ugly. Your rejection has that much more potency.  
-- https://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/1f4uckx/comment/lko3yy1/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=mweb3x&utm_name=mweb3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button

> "Tatooine, a fan favorite"  
> I can't express enough how utterly tired and done I am of seeing that f*cking desert in Star Wars, it's supposed to be a totaly whatever planet with nothing interesting on it, it's the whole reason the Hutts are based there, It's because official authority won't bother seriously going there becouse it's a pointless sh*thole planet.  
> Stop.  
> Going.  
> To.  
> Tatooine.  
> The planet is not interesting, never has been, never will be, it's not good looking, it's not alien, IT IS JUST A FRIGGIN' DESERT, STOP  
-- Redditor

> The smart people who afterward claimed to have known all along that it was impossible were smart enough to remain silent for the time being.  
-- Hermann Balck, Order in Chaos

> There was a bit of humor even in this situation. Instead of getting across the Enns Bridge to safety, some four hundred troops were lolling in the grass on the Russian side, sunning themselves and bathing in the river. As soon as the Russian tanks showed up, the entire four hundred swam the river. Then they reported to me totally naked, urgently requesting clothing I did not have. The only thing to do was to order them to retrieve their uniforms by swimming back across. It worked because the Russians did not have a clear field of observation of that sector of the riverbank.  
-- Hermann Balck, Order in Chaos

> Ich bin paranoid, aber bin ich paranoid genug?  
-- Armageddon Cycle 1

> He went on to state that, "If it were not for the accident of my birth, I would be antisemitic and "any people who has been persecuted for two thousand years must be doing something wrong."
-- Henry Kissinger

> At the end of the day, it's night
-- Random brasilian twitter user harassing Africa's richest man

> Du kennst mich doch, ich hab' nichts gegen Fremde. Einige meiner besten Freunde sind Fremde. Aber diese Fremden da sind nicht von hier.
– Methusalix, das Geschenk Cäsars, S. 16

> Ich verbiete dir meine schlechten Ideen zu kritisieren

> Für 'ne Idee von dir is dat 'ne chute Idee!
