---
id: 48eae781-ee97-4545-9384-c4fa58edc9bc
title: Leadership Quotes
aliases: [Leadership Quotes]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-01-11T19:23:00+01:00
language: en
access: public
tags: []
abstract: 
up: []
modified: 2025-04-12T16:43:31+02:00
---

# Leadership Quotes

---

## List

> Die Tradition ist die Krone des Tyrannen.

> Der Mann mit Stimme und Gewalt regiert die Welt.
- Pierce Brown (Lorn au Arcos), *Red Rising, Tag der Entscheidung*

> Die Macht ist eine Krone, die den Kopf frisst
- Pierce Brown (Der Schakal), *Red Rising, Im Haus der Feinde*

> Ein großer Teil der Herrschaft eines Herrschers sind Hirngespinste in den Köpfen der Leute. Meine Macht ist ihre Angst. Aber sie müssen immer wieder daran erinnert werden.
- Pierce Brown (Octavia au Lune), *Red Rising, Im Haus der Feinde*

> Ihr folgt mir nicht, weil ich der Stärkste bin. [Das ist …]  
> Ihr folgt mir nicht, weil ich der Klügste bin. [Das ist …]  
> Ihr folgt mir, weil ihr nicht wisst, wohin ihr gehen sollt. Aber ich weiß es.

> Man muss mit dunklen Taten durchs Leben gehen. Man kann nicht davor wegrennen. Man muss sie auf sich nehmen, wenn man herrschen will.
- Pierce Brown, *Red Rising*

> Die Menschheit war schon immer versklavt. Die Freiheit macht uns zu Sklaven der Macht und Gier. Nimm ihnen die Freiheit weg und gib ihnen etwas anderes.
- Pierce Brown, *Red Rising*

> Siege. Trage die Schuld. Herrsche.
- Pierce Brown, *Red Rising*

> MEN CEASE TO INTEREST US WHEN WE FIND THEIR LIMITATIONS. THE ONLY SIN IS LIMITATION. AS SOON AS YOU ONCE COME UP TO A MAN'S LIMITATIONS, IT IS ALL OVER WITH HIM.
- Emerson

> "Never tell people how to do things. Tell them what to do and they will surprise you with their ingenuity,"
- Patton

> The key to supporting people well is to guide them as gently as possible to the most obvious solution, and let them think they were the one to discover it

> Constant care and the constant example of enduring hardship and discomfort […].  
-- Hermann Balck

> The enthusiasm is over after the first bivouac in a rainstorm. More important are a sense of duty, political attitude, warrior spirit, and esprit de corps.  
-- Hermann Balck

> Wherever the officers avoided the constant mass-produced mush, there was discontent; where the officers ate from the field kitchen, there was no sense of revolution. Whenever possible or at regular intervals, I ensured everyone had cooked rations. No German soldier will turn against an officer who shares his joy and pain, death and danger.  
-- Hermann Balck

> “The NCO who knows his business does not scream or mistreat his troops. If he understands the importance of making duty interesting, that eliminates a key cause of mistreatment. Another of the worst kinds of maltreatment occurs when a sadist and a masochist meet. A leader can be relatively powerless in dealing with this kind of erotic interplay. The only defense against this sort of problem is a good knowledge of human behavior, with which not everybody is equipped. Psychological analysis can alert the leader to such personalities and can prompt him to monitor and manage them accordingly. The third source of maltreatment of subordinates is emotional outbursts by people who are still young and imbalanced. The latter can happen frequently and it is best not to take it too seriously. A well-trained NCO is the best remedy for such cases.”  
-- Hermann Balck

> “ Sometimes you have to force yourself to trust reliable people who are leading at the front.”  
-- Hermann Balck

> The staff, officers, and enlisted celebrated Christmas together. Hoepner spoke firmly, sincerely, and with confidence. He was a powerful leader. I sat next to him. He said that the hardest challenge of leadership came in situations where one had to muster all his personal powers to appear upbeat and confident in order to give his subordinates strength.  
-- Hermann Balck, Order in Chaos

> All you hear is constant criticism of our most senior leadership. There may be a lot to criticize, but the complaining will not improve matters. Our situation is certainly not pretty, but we will manage if everyone remains positive.  
-- Hermann Balck

> I had a good impression of their working relationship with Hitler, even though I knew that every superior has to appear optimistic toward his subordinates and can never be critical. Otherwise the instrument will break in his hands.  
-- Hermann Balck

> When Hitler said "Grey", Ribbentrop said "Black, black, black". He always said it three times more, and he was always more radical. I listened to what Hitler said one day when Ribbentrop wasn't present: "With Ribbentrop it is so easy, he is always so radical. Meanwhile, all the other people I have, they come here, they have problems, they are afraid, they think we should take care and then I have to blow them up, to get strong. And Ribbentrop was blowing up the whole day and I had to do nothing. I had to break -- much better!"

> But innere Führung does not mean being soft and always giving in. The Landser would find that quite funny and try to take advantage. It requires toughness where necessary, but also an ability to understand and empathize with the soldier on the line.  
>  The feeling for the troops one develops as a company commander also serve him once he becomes a division commander. You live closely with the troops and know when to tighten up and when to relax a little. At the higher echelons, however, it is a little different. When I took over the corps, I set up a special field post box number to which anyone could write with “ideas for improvement.” That, of course, was a euphemism. The real purpose of the post box was to provide an outlet for troops to express their concerns privately. If you can talk or write about something that is bothering you, it becomes easier to bear and sometimes the problem sorts itself out. Everyone who wrote in received a detailed answer that was either signed by my chief of staff, Mellenthin, or in difficult situations by me personally. Using this system, we were able to resolve some[…]  
-- Hermann Balck

---

## Related Concepts

Up:: [[20240111T190703|Quotes]]

Same:: [[20240111T191230|Strategic Quotes]]

Same:: [[20240111T191336|Diplomatic Quotes]]

Same:: [[20240111T191619|Relationship Quotes]]

Same:: [[20240111T190717|General Quotes]]

Same:: [[20240111T191251|Amusing Quotes]]

Same:: [[20240111T191820|Own Quotes]]
