---
id: 74a58116-2a5a-4d1b-9820-cfd52a4767a3
title: Business Quotes
aliases: [Business Quotes]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-11-01T12:26:00+01:00
language: en
access: public
tags: [business, quotes]
abstract: This note contains any quote I documented related to business.
up:
  - [[2024-01-11-19-07-03|Quotes]]
  - [[2024-02-28-15-00-26|Business & Finance]]
modified: 2025-02-21T21:29:23+01:00
---

# Business Quotes

---

## List

> "Nothing attracts a crowd like a crowd"  
— Craig Clemens, *My First Million*, Episode 514

> When trying to sell something, it is less about figuring out the needs of the customer and more about whether he likes the salesperson.

> Save what you can, but spare no expense for what is needed.

> "Dem Geld darf man nicht nachlaufen, man muss ihm entgegen gehen."  
— Aristoteles Onassis

> “Those who took over positions like that tended to reject how the former boss worked. New employees recruited by one’s predecessor were always the best heavy bags to vent stress on.”  
— Buncololi, *Sasaki and Peeps, Vol. 1*

> If you're selling, you wear a suit. If you're buying, you wear whatever you want.

> You can have anything you want but not everything you want  
-- Ray Dalio (abridged)

> A rising tide lifts all boats

> But Musk is someone who only thinks big, and anything worth doing is worth doing fast--otherwise you risk falling behind the competition.

> (abridged) if he'd asked customers what they wanted, they'd have demanded a faster horse  
-- Henry Ford

> If something is too expensive, you simply lower its value  
-- Strategist, Anime The Apothecary Diaries

> All you have is your reputation

> Creativity comes from looking for the unexpected and stepping outside your own experience.  
-- Ibuka Masaru

> The worst is where the money is

> Great ideas start out as polarising

---

## Related Concepts
