---
id: 351ca7e9-aa44-4165-accd-fe14e3385c4c
title: Own Quotes
aliases: [Own Quotes]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-10-11T15:53:00+02:00
language: en
access: private
tags: []
abstract: 
up: []
modified: 2025-06-10T06:05:04+02:00
---

# Own Quotes

---

## Introduction

This note holds quotes that are from me or altered versions of different sources or even quotes that I think are from me, but I somehow only copied from somewhere else. All of these are not meant for a later audience or even to be permanently persistent, they are sometimes only small pieces of thought or reminders for myself and as such very much subject to change or deletion.

---

## List

> Mein Festung ist wo ich bin

> We explore the world around us using tools. The discoveries we can make with a tool is limited, our discovery of tools however not.

> People don't need a change of scenery, people need to work on themselves.

> If I hear the word "gently" being used one more time in the context of mediation I am going to stop breathing out of pure spite.  

> Nur das Ergebnis zählt, aber die Analyse der Entscheidungen die zu diesem Schluss geführt haben ist trotzdem relevant.

> The Industrial Revolution and its consequences are that we now have people bitching about the Industrial Revolution and its consequences without which they would neither be alive, nor healthy, nor have any social standing or possessions to speak of.

> “Things are never of belongance to you, until they are. Stay open (don't discard on initial sight) to everything no matter how foreign or far away it may be to you.”

> “Ironic-unironic romantic comedy with some slight touch of harem”  
(On Anime “100 Girls That Really Want to be Your Girlfriend”)

> "Gib jetzt alles was du hast, dann wird es nächstes mal leichter sein."

> "Dream about the past, dream about the future, and stay in the present."

> Bestimmte Dinge wurden von Menschen als göttlich angesehen, weil es außerhalb unserer Fähigkeiten und Verständnisses lag. Jetzt können und wissen wir und lassen uns immer noch durch unsere eigenen Mauern aufhalten.

> economic ambition, architectural beauty, and a profound appreciation for life's simpler pleasures

> Everything is a game, learned and learned how to be abused by playing, with its own set of rules and different things on the line.

> It's not always what it seems and never just what appears.

> Effort is honored

> There are definitely men where I think to myself "god damn".  
> The thing I haven't figured out if I want to be *like* bro or be *in* bro

> Per Definition zeigt eine Ausnahme eine Regel.  
Als Ersatz für Ausnahme bestätigt die Regel

> Kümmere dich nicht darum was die anderen machen. Suche das besondere an dir

> Ruhe bewahren, Fokus auf jetzt und handeln.

> Online opinion of other people can be useful to prevent scams, but everything beyond that is purely personal preference. Listening to others opinions just adds noise to one's own abilities to decide.

> They think it was them who didn't understand correctly, when it was me, I, who had no idea, what he just said

> Wenn sich etwas komisch anfühlt, dann ist es immer ungewöhnlich, da es entweder gegen die Erwartung, oder gegen die Gewohnheit läuft und alles, was gegen die Erwartung oder Gewohnheit läuft, muss geprüft werden.  
> Oder, in anderen Worten, jede Gelegenheit die entweder gegen die Erwartung, oder die Gewohnheit läuft, muss geprüft werden.

> Don't call out what's bad in the past, focus on what can be done better in the future

> Never give up on anything as lost. Times change. Situations do.

> "I rate based on how I enjoyed it and I generally only watch things I enjoy. That's why the scale is inherently skewed towards higher ratings"

> Ich will jemand sein der Speichen bricht - denn das System der Menschheit ist zu stabil um einfach so aus dem Ruder gebracht zu werden

> disputing the contrarian view

> Wenn du sagen musst, was du bist, dann bist du nicht was du sagst

> Kritik heißt man beginnt damit was gut war und end endet damit was besser gemacht werden kann und nicht man startet mit was schlecht war und endet damit was schlecht war

> Error is data, obfuscation is sin

> Optimism is the greatest drug

> What even is the point of living , if not for creating value, building something, and leaving your mark behind?
