---
id: 2f5a9be4-f036-4553-9e4d-1118bfc02857
title: Strategy Quotes
aliases: [Strategy Quotes]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-08-31T15:24:00+02:00
language: en
access: public
tags: [strategy, quotes]
abstract: This note contains every quote I have documented related to strategy.
up:
  - [[2024-01-11-19-07-03|Quotes]]
same:
  - [[2024-01-11-19-07-17|General Quotes]]
  - [[2024-01-11-19-13-04|Business Quotes]]
  - [[2024-01-11-19-23-13|Leadership Quotes]]
  - [[2024-01-11-19-13-36|Diplomacy Quotes]]
  - [[2024-01-11-19-16-19|Relationship Quotes]]
  - [[2024-01-11-19-12-51|Amusing Quotes]]
  - [[2024-01-11-20-05-49|Mindfulness Quotes]]
  - [[2024-02-07-21-39-42|Farewell Quotes]]
  - [[2024-01-11-19-18-20|Own Quotes]]
modified: 2025-03-18T06:01:54+01:00
---

# Strategy Quotes

---

## List

> [!quote]  
> If you don't occupy publicity locations, then enemies will occupy it.

> [!quote]  
> It's better to search for the answer than to wait for it.

> [!quote]  
> “There was no point of overestimating or underestimating the enemy, for evidence spoke for itself.”  
— *Release That Witch*

> [!quote]  
> “The decision, the reaching of a workable solution is the objective.”  
— Captain Harlan N. Hartness (U.S.-American exchange officer in Germany 1935-1937, on the German system of war)

> [!quote]  
> “Better a faulty plan or decision permeated with boldness, daring, and decisiveness, than a perfect plan enmeshed in uncertainty.”  
— Captain Albert C. Wedemeyer (U.S.-American exchange officer in Germany 1938, on the German system of war)

> When you think that everything is going well… You must think about whether it's really ok at least once.

> In einem Sturm bindet man zwei Boote nicht aneinander. Sie werden einander herunterziehen.
- Pierce Brown, *Red Rising, Tag der Entscheidung*

> Zieh dich nie zurück. Du eröffnest keinen Angriff, wenn du dich zurücktreiben lässt. [missing part, something about going sideways instead]
- Pierce Brown (Lorn au Arcos), *Red Rising, Im Haus der Feinde*

> Waffen sind Macht. Geld ist Macht. Doch die meiste Macht in allen Welten haben Worte.
- Pierce Brown, *Red Rising*

> "Gauge the ability of your opponent calmly and maintain a bold fighting spirit."

> If you're gonna resist, fight to the end and if you want to betray your side, you've gotta do it quick.

> Um zu siegen, musst du opfern. Sei nicht schwach.

> You don't recall the sun after it has set. You stop the sun from setting before it has set.

> You are nobody if you are not sitting at the table where decisions are made. You can have a lot of money, but it doesn't give you the power to make impactful decisions, you simply follow the rules.

> Everyone is a child of one's times. One can't wish for realities, only adapt to them

> "What you have to learn is to fold early when the odds are against you, or if you have a big edge, back it heavily because you don't get a big edge often. Opportunity comes, but it doesn't come often, so seize it when it does come."  
-- Charlie Munger

> Ganz einfach: wirf ne Münze und schau, ob du dich über das Ergebnis freust oder nicht. Dann hast du dein Ergebnis  
-- WiWi-Treff-Forum, Post eines unbekannten Nutzers

> Lerne deinen Feind kennen, um ihn zu bekämpfen  
-- Habermalz VWL Einführung

> There's method in madness  
-- Anime

They say a flock of sheep led by a lion will overcome a pride of lions led by a sheep  
-- LOTGH

> Most humans only look like Go stones to me. Men are black stones, women are white stones.  
> Even my subordinates in the military only appear as chess (xiangqi) pieces, at best. Most are soldiers, pawns. As they gain ranks, they become cavalry and cannons.  
> Working in the military is easy. I just need to know where to place the pieces. The right pieces in the right places. Most wars can be won by that alone.  
> It's quite easy. Even if I were completely useless, as long as I placed others in the right places, the work would get done on its own  
-- Lakan, Apothecary Diaries Anime

> Do not start an attack unless all your forces are assembled  
-- Hermann Balck

> Find your opponents weakness, and use it.

> The goal of the game isn't to win. It's to stay in it as long as you can.

> I soon established a relationship with the labor representatives based on respect, and I have been convinced ever since then that in politics trust and openness play an unusually large role.  
-- Herman Balck

> A favorable situation will never be exploited if commanders wait for orders. The highest commander and the youngest soldier must always be conscious of the fact that omission and inactivity are worse than resorting to the wrong expedient.

> One only loses in the defense  
-- Hermann Balck, Order in Chaos

> The old adage is never to give up in war; the enemy is at least as bad off as you are.  
-- Hermann Balck, Order in Chaos

> Napoleon once said that one must change his tactics every ten years, otherwise they become ineffective. Today it is necessary to change much faster and more substantially.  
-- Hermann Balck, Order in Chaos

> attaquez donc toujours  
-- Napoleon (?)

> The attack always results in lower losses, assuming that it is well prepared and it succeeds, or is broken off in time.  
-- Hermann Balck, Order in Chaos

> It had been one of the most modern, if not the most modern, attack of the war. Here I had for a change the opportunity to draw from the experiences of World War I, which showed that war does not favor repeated patterns. All actions must be based on the immediate situation.  
-- Hermann Balck

> The questions about the new weapons technologies were of the utmost importance. I had always been of the opinion that superior weapons and equipment were worth more than good operational leadership.  
-- Hermann Balck, Order in Chaos
