---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 4348b6da-8b74-471d-83d8-c3ad07406255
created: 2025-01-12T21:12:00+01:00
modified: 2025-01-30T06:18:31+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en, language/de]
key-words: [ironi-quotes, power-politics]
aliases: [Macher Quotes]
title: Macher Quotes
---

# Macher Quotes

---

## Objectives

**Purpose:**  
*Why am I engaging with this material?*
- To provide a space for half-ironic quotes related to hyper-achieving goals.

**Goals:**  
*What concrete achievements do I aim for with this note?*
- [ ]

**Key Questions:**
*How will I achieve these aims?*
-

---

## Quotes

> Miracles happen through use of force

> Jeder Mensch ist im Grunde seines Herzens ein Tier. Es ist der stärkste Teil in uns, und deswegen fürchten wir ihn auch am meisten. Doch wer den Mut findet, das Tier herrschen zu lassen, der wird unbesiegbar.  
-- Quinn Dexter, Armageddon Cycle 1

- When he stabilized the mark in 1923, Schacht's office was a former charwoman's cupboard. When his secretary, Fräulein Steffeck, was later asked about his work there, she described it as follows:
> What did he do? He sat on his chair and smoked in his little dark room which still smelled of old floor cloths. Did he read letters? No, he read no letters. Did he write letters? No, he wrote no letters. He telephoned a great deal -- he telephoned in every direction and to every German or foreign place that had anything to do with money and foreign exchange as well as with the Reichsbank and the Finance Minister. And he smoked. We did not eat much during that time. We usually went home late, often by the last suburban train, travelling third class. Apart from that he did nothing.
