---
id: 253d1400-fd03-4f4d-9dd3-485bd8135a71
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-07-21T22:16:00+02:00
tags: []
modified: 2025-02-01T19:34:43+01:00
aliases: [Horizons GTD]
title: Horizons GTD
---

# Horizons GTD

## Exposition

Certainly! The Horizons of Focus model is an integral part of David Allen's Getting Things Done (GTD) methodology. It provides a way to categorize and prioritize your tasks and objectives based on their level of importance and time sensitivity. Here is an overview of each level:

1. **Ground: Current actions.** This level is all about immediate tasks or next actions you need to take. It's the most tangible and often the most urgent level. It includes emails to be sent, phone calls to be made, meetings to attend, etc.
2. **Horizon 1: Projects.** These are series of tasks with a shared outcome, usually to be completed within a year. For example, "Plan and host the annual conference," or "Develop and launch a new website."
3. **Horizon 2: Areas of responsibility.** These are ongoing aspects of life or work that require continuous attention. They usually do not have an end point. Examples might include "Health," "Career development," "Family," or for work, it could be "Customer satisfaction," or "Staff management."
4. **Horizon 3: Goals.** These are typically objectives you want to achieve within the next 1-2 years. They're linked to the higher horizons and they guide the work you do in the lower horizons. Examples include "Increase personal savings by 20%" or "Expand business into a new market."
5. **Horizon 4: Vision.** This level encompasses your bigger-picture, long-term visions for the next 3-5 years. It's about where you see yourself going in life or what you want your organization to become. An example might be, "Become a recognized expert in my field."
6. **Horizon 5: Purpose and principles.** This is the highest level of the horizons of focus and it's about your purpose in life, your core values and principles. It's the "why" behind everything you do. This could be something like, "To live a healthy, balanced and fulfilled life and make a positive impact on others."

Each of these horizons inform and influence the others. Your actions on the ground should be aligned with your projects, which should be contributing to your areas of responsibility, which should be aiding you in achieving your goals, which should be moving you closer to your vision, which should be fulfilling your purpose.

By regularly reviewing and updating each of these horizons, you can ensure that your daily actions are connected to your long-term goals and purpose, and that you're making meaningful progress in all areas of your life.


#status/pending