---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: f4fb83da-fb8e-4256-b014-3038a000fd02
created: 2025-01-11T20:13:00+01:00
modified: 2025-02-02T06:04:22+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en]
key-words: [leadership, general]
aliases: [Walter Model]
title: Walter Model
---

# Walter Model

---

## Objectives

**Purpose:**  
*Why am I engaging with this material?*
- To give an overview of a hardworking and effective leader, serving as inspiration for my own actions

**Goals:**  
*What concrete achievements do I aim for with this note?*
- [ ] Provide a general profile of Model
- [ ] Reference interesting anecdotes about him
- [ ] Apply learnings to own case

**Key Questions:**  
*How will I achieve these aims?*
- What type of person was Walter Model?
- What can I emulate? How?

---

## Quotes on Model

> He was considered a thorough and competent leader but known to "demand too much, and that too quickly", accepting no excuses for failure from either his own men or those who outranked him. [^1]

> Allied to this were his boundless determination and vigor and stubborn refusal to countenance defeat. He held himself to the same high standard as he held those around him, saying: "He who leads troops has no right to think about himself" His visits to the front may not have helped operational efficiency, but they energized his men, who consistently held him in much higher regard than did his officers. As commanding general of Ninth Army he was once recorded as personally leading a battalion attack against a Soviet position, pistol in hand. In combat he spared neither himself nor his subordinates. His peers respected his ability and iron will, even though they may have detested his personality. Guderian thought him the best choice to command Army Group Centre during the crisis of Operation Bagration; the Ninth Army's War Diary recorded, after he arrived at army group headquarters in Minsk: "The news of Field Marshal Model's arrival is noted with satisfaction and confidence." [^1]

--

## References

[^1]: Wikipedia
