---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: a6f5912b-c421-4c23-aac8-cdbe4d13adc7
created: 2025-05-16T18:53:59+02:00
modified: 2025-05-16T19:07:58+02:00
tags: [access/public, language/en]
key-words: []
aliases: [3 Structural Axes]
title: 3 Structural Axes
---

# 3 Structural Axes

---

## Overview

The 3 structural axes are the lenses to analyse a [[20250516T184659|Corpus Principia]] node. The concern themselves with body of codified knowledge and direction, structure, and action respectively.

---

## Doctrine

Doctrine is what's written down/passed down voice/lost on talent rotation.

It can be seen as the equivalent of the should of the company, from foundational to continuos improvement

### Charter

Artefacts defining the purpose, very core concerns. Changes only seldomly, mostly created in the beginning of the lifecycle of an institution.

### Policy

Defining what must be, and what can never be. Defining legal hazards, personal policy, security rules, and so on. High-level

### Directive

Vehicles that operationalise strategy. Of different timeframes, from aspirational, to very localised

### Execution

Everything related to the executional level, standards, checklist, must-follow lists, and so on.

### Evolution

Bottom-up transformation.

## Form

### Juridical

The concrete legal structure of the node. How much or little it is formalised in that regard.

### Ownership

How owns this node and how.

### Structural

How this node is structured.

### Temporal

### Modal

How interface with this node happens.

## Initiative

### Source of Mandate

Where the origin of the order originates

### Style of Mandate

### Cadence

### Control

### Terminal
