---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 330da6c8-c6e1-4c28-a8df-02cead8b8ef1
created: 2025-03-15T01:33:07+01:00
modified: 2025-04-12T16:19:41+02:00
tags: [access/private, language/en, pr/25/019]
key-words: [exercise, legs, upper-body, strength, hyperthrophy, calisthenics, health]
aliases: [Sports System]
title: Sports System
---

# Sports System

---

## Overview

The sports system in its current design intends to leverage the time I have assigned to it - 1 hour every morning from 07:30 to 08:30 - by doing supersets for every exercise.

I don't have a strict rest day, as commonly recommended or as I previously had, instead, I have certain days with heavier loads and such with lessers ones. Nonetheless, every few weeks I insert a de-load week, with reduced efforts to accommodate my body and decrease risks of injury. In addition, if I feel that I'm overtraining I insert days with lesser intensity, specifically, stretching. Dropping entire days is undesirable.

I try to incorporate auxiliary equipment such as kettlebells, medicine balls, and others as much as possible. This ultimately means I won't be able to follow this exact routine everywhere I go, or if away from home, but it allows me to make use of a broader toolkit.

I am currently in the process of gradually adapting to a weight vest. 10 kg is what I start with, the vest can hold up to 30 kg.

---

## Monday

**Full Body Strength**

[[20250315T015314|Monday]] marks the start of the week, and the start of this regimen. It begins with common heavy exercises designed to maximise strength and hypertrophy in the entire body.

---

## Tuesday

**Lower Body Power**

The purpose of the [[20250315T021237|second day]] of this routine is to not only develop strength, but also explosive power in the legs through the use of compound and unilateral movements.

---

## Wednesday

**Upper Body Hypertrophy**

[[20250315T021436|This day]] targets chest, back, shoulders, and arms through high-volume compound accessory movements, building upper body mass.

---

## Thursday

**Full-Body Explosiveness**

[[20250315T021626|Thursday]] aims to develop explosive power throughout the entire body through high-intensity, fast-paced movements.

---

## Friday

**Lower Body Strength**

On [[20250315T021846|this day]] the prime focus is to develop strength and balance in the legs.

---

## Saturday

**Upper Body Endurance**

On [[20250315T022031|Saturday]] the upper body is in focus again, pushing my abilities through the use of high-rep activities.

---

## Sunday

**Active Recovery + Recovery**

[[20250315T022206|Sunday]] marks the culmination of the week and a shift to the lower end of the intensity spectrum, working out the routines of the concluding week and preparing for the week ahead.

---

## Changelog

- **[Saturday, 15 Mar 2025, 01:54:06]** Created note, wrote overview and filled all of the days with initial descriptions
- **[Saturday, 12 Apr 2025, 16:19:09]** Integrated note
