---
id: 9a61d4bb-1741-411e-98c5-10adf16366fc
aliases: [2023-08-31]

author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-08-31T19:01:00+02:00
modified: 2025-02-14T12:28:47+01:00

tags: [todo/develop, access/private]

up: 1-3-1-4-3-3-1
same:
down:
next: 1-3-1-4-3-3-1-5
prev: 1-3-1-4-3-3-1-3
related:
---

# 1-1-3-1-4-3-3-1-4

We spent the entire day in Lucca. After a longer evening yesterday I overslept, just as anticipated. Doesn't matter as I still am in schedule with all planned attendances. We enjoyed an elongated breakfast surrounded by olive trees and various well smelling plants on the veranda. The temperature was below expectation yet quite nice for a voyage through the city.  
It is always hard to find generalising things that don't get refuted right on the next occasion. In that way it is hard to say that there is anarchy on italian streets but for the bieder German it appears like just that. I like to apply rules in a pragmatic manner, generally staying inside of their bounds as stringently as possible except for "ausserordentliche Lagen" but I never quite experienced the true meaning or rather borders of this statement like in Italy. It is undoubtably possible to say that there exists two ruling orders: The word of law and the word of the streets. If you are on the autostrada and speed is throttled (on many occasions quite unreasonable) to 60 you are able to experience evolutionary pressure first hand. When the headlights of the LKW behind you become your entire vision you either move or will be elapsed on the left by said LKW with a nice and easy 110 (110 kmh on a 60 kmh strip and I must stress this is no exaggeration!) . The discrepancy I hinted at by saying that it is hard to find generalising statements is found in exactly the number 110: This is as high as they go. When you are entering the maut street, sports mode turned on, battered by various violations of the rules that strike deep in your German heart, ready to rumble, you will experience that on high speeds the Italian is quite tame. It seems like a fast burning spirit that loses fuel fast.
