---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: c3f7a6d1-020b-4106-965f-c942939323e8
created: 2025-02-08T05:20:50+01:00
modified: 2025-02-14T12:00:56+01:00
tags: [access/private, language/en, timeframe/tactical/day]
key-words: []
aliases: [2025-02-08 Saturday]
title: 2025-02-08 Saturday
---

# 2025-02-08 Saturday

---

## 05:20

I'm struggling to find a point to attach to. The work is essentially right in front of me, yet I find it hard to actually comprehend what to do and then do it. The mental resistance to actually working, doing stuff is quite strong. It is interesting to look back, as the work I had to do in the past generally was always the same - refining parts of my productivity system. Only then, I told myself, could I return and forge ahead. Yet, I never finished (or started, really) this kind of work. Leaving me in an endless loop.

At least I recognised and acknowledged this predicament now. That means I can take action to circumvent it (which is funny as taking action is my struggle).

From getting up until now I only really cycled through the existing notes in the different timeframes, added or removed some tags, but didn't actually start addressing any topics in a substantial way.

---

## 11:30

I had a very good nap 1, woke up according to plan (07:25, laid down at 06:45), but decided after stepping out on the balcony to get my sport clothes that today will be a rest day. The decision was ok, generally speaking, as the last few days have shown that strain is high, however was born out of a weakness (cold outside, like very) rather than character. Still, an acceptable decision.

Got me some bread rolls after, ate until about 09:00, but then had the urge to D/P/F/K, which I did until 11:00.

---

## 14:00

Currently sitting in Luisenpark (Mannheim). I set out at about 11:30 to buy me another 4 pack of the default Monster energy drink (to satisfy my current addiction, I drank one everyday for the last like 14 days), but quickly pivoted to driving to Uni (which I didn't visit for the last like 30 days), and while driving to Uni took a different turn at an intersection and traveled somewhere without a real route planned out.

I landed in the Neckarau, Hauptpforte Großkraftwerk Mannheim, and traveled along the Rhine into the direction of Uni. On my way back from there (nominally), I decided to take a stop in Luisenpark, was very thirsty and bought myself a Coke Zero, after which I planted myself onto the bench of the first few weeks in Mannheim (practically in the centre).

A short reflection, as I only got 7% left, and I still want to do some shopping. A 30kg weighted vest, a 24kg kettlebell and some rings.

I fear that if ever my notes are going to be found by someone, some aspects, more foreign, abnormal, polarising even is going to overshadow anything else and define my character in the eyes of that person. Even with less material do some people™ (no, not providing any source, proof, or example) arrive at outlandish interpretations and assessments. I try to be brutally honest, don't hold back on any topic, fill the pages with anything relevant. This however means that more extreme things form a larger part than the casual day-to-day, thus skewing the picture towards these extremes. While in practice they might only form a more minor part.

---

## 15:20

I arrived home around 15:00. Before, I wrapped up shopping and rode home. I nearly forgot why I even started the tour (drive to Rewe, bring back Leergut and buy energy four-pack), but remembered just as I was passing by Rewe.

The recent compulsive shopping spree (which I'm going to write about more at some later point) left my total account balances dwindling by probably around 1500 Euro - a scary number to spend in a single month. I need to regain fiscal discipline!
