---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 97f55a06-2b9b-4469-8b72-99f72856a605
created: 2025-02-28T16:30:34+01:00
modified: 2025-03-17T22:15:12+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en, day]
key-words: []
aliases: [Summary of 2025-02-28]
title: Summary of 2025-02-28
---

# Summary of 2025-02-28

---

## Overview

A very unsuccessful day in terms of making progress. My mental state, although not to be paid any mind to, was quite upbeat. Joe staid the night in a hotel in Mannheim and we spent the first half of the day together, eating and shopping. The second half of the day I spent on my own in my room, moving around things, but not achieving anything of note, really.

---

## 23:00 To 08::00

I laid to bed at about 23:00, after spending the evening with Joe in Alter Simpel in Mannheim. I didn't fall asleep until about 24:00. I had to sleep with the window open and only wearing my shorts as atonement for me failing to live up to the 10 oaths the day prior. It was around 3 Celcius outside, moving into freezing territory later that night, and I decided that not going under the blanket wasn't part of my atonement, so I did just that (defeating the purpose of the punishment as it was quite warm in that position).

I tried to follow the regular alarm at 03:00 first, but half-asleep changed it and slept all the way until 07:30. I then laid in bed until about 08:00, making me turn up late for my breakfast meet-up in Hotel Mack where Joe settled.

---

## 08:30 To 15:00

That timespan was spent with Joe, first eating breakfast, then resolving some leftover issues of mine. Classic things that are best done with a car available, such as returning water boxes.

We drove to the nearby Ikea at (pure guess) around 12:00, and wandered around for around 2 hours, originally only looking for a lightweight moving metal-rack to hang my jackets on, but expanding that search into a true small haul, ranging from a new standing lamp to a bed plaid, a new jacket, new bed sheets, and some other minor things.

We brought these things to my home, assembled them, and Joe left at around 15:00

---

## 15:00 To 00:00

This time went by in a blur, I didn't actually do something productive, didn't adhere to the oaths, and in general wasn't that successful. I went to Rewe and brought something to eat, washed my clothes, waterproofed some of my new shoes (a rather flashy pair from Puma), and that was about it.

I didn't follow the oaths, even drank some energy drinks and bought me some bread rolls.

The punishment for forgetting (not "finding" the time) to say the 10 oaths in the morning was 10 slaps to the cheek (for the oversleeping before that a cold shower), the punishment for not adhering to the 10 oaths the entire day was to skip the core sleep (that's why I'm writing this at 00:00).
