---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 0b0fcd91-34fa-4b3f-aba1-67f3bae35530
created: 2025-03-27T03:57:41+01:00
modified: 2025-03-27T21:50:08+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en, tf/day]
key-words: []
aliases: [Summary of 2025-03-27]
title: Summary of 2025-03-27
---

# Summary of 2025-03-27

---

## Overview

Today was one of the best days in my entire life even in terms of discipline and execution. I meticulously followed the routine and showed full commitment in the 25 minute sprints.

---

## 13:30 To 02:00

Laid down for nap 2 but was so tired that I slept all the way to around 19:00, where I woke up the first time. I decided to continue sleeping anyway, which I did with minor waking phases. Got up at 02:00

---

## 02:00 To 04:00

Prepared a meal consisting out of whole-grain toast and continued reading in the One Piece, around chapter 620 onwards.

---

## 04:00 To 07:00

Worked mostly on setting up my personal webpage, with little concrete results, yet some progress in understanding.

---

## 07:00 To 09:00

Morning routine, didn't do nap and had to cut workout short by half because of me starting late.

---

## 09:00 To 13:00

Mostly work on personal webpage, managed to deploy, chose a template.

---

## 13:00 To 14:00

Prepared lunch too late, so ate from 13:30 to 14:00. Nap was cut anyway to reduce sleep debt.

---

## 14:00 To 18:00

Started day trading again. Mostly got into context where I left off. Had the markets running in the background, with my current setup of charting through Tradingview, TWS as the execution platform, and having a news stream on the side through Tradingview.

---

## 18:00 To 19:00

Went for a short walk in the glowing evening sun. It was a pretty day.

---

## 19:00 To 21:30

Started learning HTML through the Learn HTLM course of Codecademy.Progressed quite fast, nearly completed it.

---

## 21:30 To 22:30

Regular evening routine.
