---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 6389734e-f6de-4cd2-9016-547e97094298
created: 2025-01-30T22:00:12+01:00
modified: 2025-01-31T03:53:45+01:00
tags: [access/private, language/en, timeframe/tactical/day]
key-words: []
aliases: [2025-01-22 Wednesday]
title: 2025-01-22 Wednesday
---

# 2025-01-22 Wednesday

---

## Overview

Today was the day where Jac was to pass by at my home in Mannheim, on her way home from a short holiday in Engen with Hannah (which she thoroughly enjoyed). We met up at about 09:00 - she was about an hour too early - and took a short walk together. Overall I don't feel very satisfied with my behaviour as a human and a son, I wasn't very social and didn't talk much. I also didn't let her in my apartment as it currently is still in a large disorder, caused by various shopping items laying around, waiting to be returned. She left early, also because I said that I don't have much time because of the exams coming up.

Besides that I didn't do anything really productive, even though I am in an upswing currently and gaining momentum to get back on track.

The previous days I had a sleeping rhythm that left me staying up through the night, my reason being that this is the only time I get done anything at all, but even that smoothed out over time. Getting back into a healthy sleeping rhythm is a key priority again.

The exams are coming up and I'm not prepared. At all. I haven't learned a single minute, even more horrendously: haven't visited a single lecture since the beginning of this semester. I am slump in my apartment, visiting the Uni, or even leaving it on a regular basis, presenting an insurmountable mental barrier.

We'll see how things pan out. Getting this bachelor is absolutely vital and my only option currently. I have to put in the work from semester 2 on. As I mentioned above, I am regaining the initiative and on a good track currently. A major initiative I decided on yesterday was, that I will never consume any kind of entertainment **ever** again. That I change my whole personality (vis-a-vis *Atomic Habits*) to be one without the need of entertainment. The reason for this decision is reflection on my limited time on earth and the imprint I want to leave. I was majorly inspired by reading about personalities such as Moses (NYC major), Hjalmar Schacht and some other historic personalities. I peddled too much in the nothingness in my early 20s and didn't build any vital foundation to kickstart my later 20s and 30s. I feel like I am getting old. Things need to change.
