---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 4b293bc6-bb1b-47e4-8c46-5354c3dd9111
created: 2025-03-15T03:55:56+01:00
modified: 2025-03-15T22:02:37+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en, day]
key-words: []
aliases: [Summary of 2025-03-15]
title: Summary of 2025-03-15
---

# Summary of 2025-03-15

---

## Overview

---

## XX:XX To 03:00

I stayed awake, as I had plenty of sleep over the last days. Worked on cleaning up the Drafts workspaces.

---

## 03:00 To 04:00

I followed my regular morning routine, although in a light version.

---

## 04:00 To 06:00

I quite successfully worked on concrete things inside of Drafts, a thing I struggled with (to just sit down and "do" stuff). I documented my workout routine in Obsidian.

---

## 06:00 To 17:00

At 06:00 I decided to lay down with an alarm for 08:30. As the current mornings are as cold and I haven't worked out for the past weeks I saw starting working out in the morning as too challenging.

I overslept massively until 17:00. The last few days have been severally structured, me sleeping from morning until afternoon. I employed a system to set rolling alarms in 30 minute intervals (which I did from like 11:00 to 17:00) to increase "felt" sleep. I however have no evidence that it actually has that effect.

---

## 17:00 To 18:30

Here, I decided to dPFK.

---

## 18:30 To 20:00

I actually went out and did a workout again. One with reduced intensity and more lenience, yet restarting the chain is all that matters.

---

## 20:00 To 21:30

I mostly did post-workout stuff, like showering and taking my supplements. I also shaved, prepared and ate food, and read in Slime Tensei LN Vol 9.

---

## 21:30 To 22:30

I followed my regular evening routine, starting with wrapping up my physical day, and concluding with the spiritual review and future outlook.
