---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 0a470cf4-f2a1-402b-a482-7af0ead1e211
created: 2025-03-28T06:12:06+0100
modified: 2025-03-29T05:46:50+0100
tags: [access/public, language/en, pr/25/028/crystallines, status/pending]
key-words: []
---

In a world vast beyond comprehension, multiple races vie for dominance. Each is balanced in strength due to their unique abilities and characteristics, making the world a grand stage of competition and cooperation.

One race, the Crystallines, stands out due to their unique composition and societal structure. They are humanoid beings made of magical, crystalline minerals. Their minds, composed entirely of magic, are not confined to their bodies and can travel through these minerals. 

The Crystallines are sparse in number but each individual possesses immense strength and is highly valued. They multiply slowly as the creation of new individuals is resource-intensive, requiring magic from the Crystalline bodies and the magical lines coursing beneath the ground.

These magical lines, conduits of magic, crisscross beneath the world and wherever they intersect, they break the surface, forming enormous mountains of crystallized magic known as Insulars. These Insulars are the Crystallines' homelands and they are at their strongest here.

Despite their physical dispersion across the world, the Crystallines' minds are interconnected, allowing them to share knowledge and experiences. They can even fuse their minds temporarily, embodying true communal living. This interconnectedness is not a hive-mind, but rather a network of highly individual and unique minds.

In society, the Crystallines function as one integrated organism, communally owning everything and fulfilling needs as they arise. Internally, they operate communally, while externally, they engage in business, finance, and industry to funnel resources back to their Insulars. They establish companies, banks, and factories, and trade with other races, all to gather and channel resources back to their homelands.

The Crystallines can alter the Insulars magically, creating portals that connect different Insulars, making them appear as one continuous space despite their actual geographical dispersion. This network of portals allows them to move resources efficiently and maintain their interconnected society across the vast world.