---
id: f67b0b80-81b2-4154-ae56-9580d8da9a1b
note-author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-10-21 21:25
last-modified: 2024-10-24 05:07
language: en
access: private
tags: [timeframe/tactical/day]
---

# 2024-10-23

---

## Summary

This day started on a good note as I was finally able to follow my sleeping schedule and fell asleep at around 22:00, however woke up at 02:00. Early morning wasn't productive and I strayed away from anything resembling a planned approach.  
I laid down for my nap at 07:00, but, as in the last days, overslept until around 12:00 to 13:00.  
After a long time I prepared me some rice and meat again and the afternoon was filled with good intent but not so great results.  
In the evening I spontaneously decided to join a Git/Github workshop of the Google Developer Club. I arrived home at 21:00 and did my evening routine.

---

## Objectives

### Primary Objectives

- [ ] Clarify objective (and key results) setting
	- [ ] Worked with ChatGPT to clarify (1h)
- [ ] Set up new note-taking system
	- [ ] Synthesised information on new note-taking system (1h)
	- [ ] Created concept notes on new note-taking system (1h)
- [ ] Set up new master content system
	- [ ] Work with ChatGPT to refine into agile project management tool (1h)
	- [ ] Synthesised information (1h)
	- [ ] Created concept notes (1h)
- [ ] Implement categorisation system
	- [ ] Implemented categorisation system in Obsidian (2h)
	- [ ] Implemented categorisation system in OneDrive (30m)
	- [ ] Implemented categorisation system in Edge (30m)
	- [ ] Implemented categorisation system in Safari (30m)
	- [ ] Implemented categorisation system in mails (1h)
- [ ] ! **Wohnung ummelden**
	- [ ] Went to Bürgerbüro (2h)
- [ ] Be at Uni
	- [ ] Stayed at Uni for at least an hour (1h)
- [ ] Daily Stand ups
	- [ ] Did daily stand up for Tommen (15m)
	- [ ] Did daily stand up for Tyrion (15m)
- [ ] Do day trading schedule
	- [ ] Worked from 14:00 to 18:00 (4h)
- [ ] Read "Day Trading for Dummies" by Ann C. Logue
	- [ ] Processed chapter 1 of "Day Trading for Dummies" (1h)
	- [ ] Processed chapter 2 of "Day Trading for Dummies" (1h)
	- [ ] Processed chapter 3 of "Day Trading for Dummies" (1h)
- [ ] Handle Enactus things
	- [ ] Reviewed things to do (10m)
	- [ ] Did some work for the Innolab (1h)
	- [ ] Stayed for Innolab session (2h)

### Secondary Objectives

- [ ] Define complete morning, midday, and evening routines
	- [ ] Defined morning routine (15m)
	- [ ] Defined midday routine (10m)
	- [ ] Defined evening routine (1h)
- [ ] Read "The Inner Citadel"
	- [ ] Processed chapter 1 of "The Inner Citadel" (1h)

---

## Morning Routine

**Time**: 03:00

### Checklist

1. [x] Turn off alarm
2. [ ] Turn on light
3. [x] Weight
4. [x] Open balcony door and step on balcony
5. [x] Drink 500 ml of water
6. [x] Ablutions
7. [x] Brush teeth
8. [x] Cleanse face
9. [x] Close balcony door
10. [x] Lower rolling shutters
11. [x] Light stretching routine
	1. [x] Neck stretches
	2. [x] Shoulder rolls
	3. [x] Torso twists
	4. [x] Arm circles
	5. [x] Leg swings
	6. [x] Calf raises
	7. [x] Marching in place
	8. [x] Jumping jacks
	9. [x] Deep breathing
	10. [x] Forward hold
12. [x] Get dressed
13. [x] Eat early breakfast (consume mindfully)
14. [x] Read news (The Economist Espresso)

---

## Midday Routine

**Time**: 13:00

### Checklist

- [ ] Eat lunch
- [ ] Review of the first half of the day
- [ ] Preview of the second half

---

## Trading Journal

**Time**: 14:00 - 18:00

### Trading Plan

#### What I'm Trading Today

**Assets**:

**Leverage**:

**Limits**:

#### Expected News Announcements

- *Time - Item - Expectation*

#### Profit and Loss Goals

### Journal

---

## Evening Routine

**Time**: 20:00

### Pre-Night Checklist

1. [x] Choose clothes for tomorrow
2. [x] Ingest caseine
3. [x] Fill water bottle
4. [x] Brush teeth

### Checklist

1. [ ] Clear every inbox
2. [ ] Update day objectives
3. [ ] Compile every half-hour timeframe document into the daily view
4. [ ] Work with ChatGPT to fill the overview of the half-hour timeframes in the day timeframe document
5. [ ] Work with ChatGPT to fill the summary of the day in the day timeframe document
6. [ ] Fill every Journal
7. [ ] Check and update Drafts workspaces
8. [ ] Check and update Reminders 
9. [ ] Write conclusion
10. [ ] Update day timeframe template
11. [ ] Fill day timeframe document of tomorrow
12. [ ] Contemplation of death

---

## Summary of the Day

### Achievements

#### Major Accomplishments

### Patterns and Insights

#### Productivity Patterns

#### Common Distractions

#### Task Completion Rate

#### Energy Levels

### Reflections and Adjustments

#### What Went Well

#### Areas for Improvement

#### Adjustments for Tomorrow

- Move turn on light in morning routine
- Add mouth wash and shaving
- Create summary that is a prose text at the very top and gets written after. Change current summary into analysis
- Add put out scale
