---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: f254f02c-5714-4b74-a1b7-4f5de05ea2c2
created: 2025-03-28T05:24:36+01:00
modified: 2025-03-29T06:13:12+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en]
key-words: []
aliases: [Summary of 2025-03-28]
title: Summary of 2025-03-28
---

# Summary of 2025-03-28

---

## Overview

---

## 22:30 To 03:00

---

## 03:00 To 04:30

Initially continued to lay in bed with the intention of sleeping until 04:00, as so powered out from previous day. Couldn't fall asleep anymore and actually did dPFK until about 04:30

---

## 04:30 To 07:00

Ate some breakfast, consisting of Skyr and walnuts, and did the daily headspace meditation.

Headspace meditation: Eyes open doesn't mean being awake, conversely, eyes closed doesn't mean being asleep
Common conception of drifting into sleepiness while meditating, but arguably more awake than anywhere else during the day

I worked until about 06:50, when Jac called. We had a short talk about our plans for easter.

Managed to resolve some minor tasks I had put off, such as uploading my student enrolment certificate
to Adobe

---

## 07:00 To 09:00

Regular morning routine, couldn't fall asleep in nap, and took too long to get ready for sports, as today's workout wasn't entered yet. Did a leg routine using the kettlebell in surprisingly warm 6 C, The sun truly played a number here. Too too long showering afterwards, got ready only at about full 09:00.

---

## 09:00 To 13:00

Ate a small breakfast until 09:30, while reading in the One Piece manga (colored). I finished the Fish Man Arc this day.

Took some taurin and a caffeine pill. This combo has proven wonders for focus and concentration ability. Paired with an aspirin is the perfect preparation for public speeches or other important public events while only taurin and caffeine is perfect for focused work or learning.

Continued working on setting up my [personal website](benjendyk.com).

---

## 13:00 To 14:00

Ate noodles (with parmesan) and laid down for nap 2. I only briefly crossed into slumber.

---

## 14:00 To 18:00

This would have been a regular day trading allocation, however, as I made litte progress in setting up my personal website and wanted at least a publishable version, I continued to work on that.

---

## 18:00 To 22:00

Cooked a meal, rice with egg and vegetables, notably asian-inspired, and idled otherwise.

I was pretty tired at this point, even considering laying down at about 20:30, which is why I went for a short stroll to clear my head.

Didn't do evening review or other prep, which is why I'm writing this the day after.
