---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 17490f6b-8f6f-438f-a8f6-e062ee6e79ed
created: 2025-01-12T21:26:00+01:00
modified: 2025-02-14T12:38:53+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en]
key-words: [depression, crisis, unproductivity]
aliases: ["2025-01-12"]
title: "2025-01-12"
---

# 2025-01-12

2025-01-12 21:26

I tried to break the deadlock of the past days, staying up until about 04:00 (numbing my brain with food/drink and entertainment) and sleeping in until around 15:00 practically every day for the last week or so) by going to sleep earlier and trying to get up at the desired 03:00. I however didn't fall asleep and the cycle continue, I finally got up at about 02:00 after rolling around in bed and afterwards stayed up until about 05:00 where I then laid down and slept until about 15:00.

The rest of the day was mostly spent reading (Armageddon Cycle 1 by Hamilton), eating and drinking. Mostly an escape of reality and the looming exams coming up.

In the late evening I managed to do some chores that I put up [^1] and got around to finally writing a journal entry again.

All in all an unsuccessful day, however the evening is slightly promising as I set the groundwork for a better tomorrow (by setting everything up for an early sleep and corresponding earlier rise).

I am really unsure if the exams are going to turn out even slightly good. It truly is a crazy thought that I didn't visit a single lecture this entire semester. That I didn't learn even for one hour. That I didn't visit the University like immediately after moving into my apartment again (only very sparsely).  
I am entirely blocked visiting the University again or doing anything productive by my mind. My mind is where I have to realise success.

[^1]:not having the energy to do simple tasks like that generally means that I'm in a phase of depression. It is hard to diagnose oneself put signs like these are tellin
