---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 33ab8508-f8e4-4237-a0a8-7838fbb11603
created: 2024-12-17T16:33:18+0100
modified: 2025-03-24T05:44:34+0100
tags: [access/public, language/en, status/pending]
key-words: []
aliases: [Days of Celebration]
title: Days of Celebration
---

# Days of Celebration

## Days of Strive

Date: 25.02-03.03 (2024)

Kann auch Beginn des neuen Kapitels genannt werden. Ich habe das Ende von Muenchen und Jura aktzeptiert, einen Weg in die Zukunft gefunden und mit meiner Familie reconciled.

### Night of Awakening

Date: 25.02-26.02 (2024)

Ich hatte mich gerade schlafen gelegt und mich dann doch entschieden die Sache, die ich seit Monate heraus geschoben hatte zu machen: Mich für das Sommersemester irgendwo einzuschreiben um eine Immatrikulationsbestaetigung zu haben und in meiner Wohnung in München weiterhin leben zu dürfen.  
Feststellung, dass ich die Frist hab verstreichen lassen, sowie Suche nach meinem zukünftigen Weg. In der Nacht hab ich Akteptanz darüber errungen, dass meine Zeit in Muenchen vorbei ist, sowie eine Skizze für meinen zukuenftigen Weg gefunden: Ein Fokus auf Unternehmertum und Wirtschaft. Ausrichtung nach BWL und Berlin. Wunsch ist duales Studium bei der Deutschen Bank.

### Day of Uncertainty

Date: 29.03 (2024) (im Original als 29.08 gekennzeichnet, im Nachhinein zum wahrscheinlicheren 29.03 korrigiert)

Reise nach hause von Muenchen. Papi extrem schlechte Stimmung wegen Krankheit und keinem Schlaf plus Stress (Meeting von Becker unmittelbar davor). Unsicherheit über Mamis plötzlich kalten Ton in Nachrichten. Am Abend tatsächlich wieder ernsthafte Gedanken über den Horizont zu treten, mit entsprechender Emotionalitaet.

### Day of Restoration

Date: 01.03 (2024)

Telefongespräch mit Mami (1,5 Stunden). Klärung und reconciliation. Papi wieder in guter Laune.

### Day of Happiness

Date: 03.03 (2024)

Spaziergang mit Mami, Dieter, und Hannah. Klärung und sehr schöner, sonniger Tag.


## Days of Mortality

(Tage der Sterblichkeit)

Date: 29.07-04.08 (2023)

I very, very nearly died in the days of 29.07.2023-02.08.2023, culminating in the partly reconciliation on the 03., and full on the 04.

The night of 29.07. (a Saturday) I didn't sleep at all. In the morning I walked (I wore the blue champions jogging hose and the white young and reckless hoodie) to Schloss Nymphenburg in a rather gray, hazy, slightly rainy day. I sat on a park bench and listened to an (or a few) episode of the History of Rome while it began to rain slightly stronger (I think I had a coffee to go with me). Afterwards I stood up, I walked out of the Nymphenburg circle and started walking home. This was where my mental state was it its lowest. On the way back I plotted definite ways for suicide. From the beginning it was crystal clear for me, that if I tried it, I would go full force, all the way, pick a method that would lead to sure death (I ruled out train from the beginning, which I still found quite barbaric, a positive note, that my mind wasn't so completely depressed that I wouldn't consider any kind of pain). My devised method was taking enough Aspirin (as well as drinking some alcohol), sand cutting my arms horizontally (along the Adern), with my arm covered by a towel and rested on some Schalen to catch the blood (or some of it). I would have tried to be drunk enough to ensure that I would have started it and went through with it. I am not kidding when I say those were very serious thoughts, they were completely, dead serious (yet always accompanied by the thought, that if I decided to do it that I would pull through with it no matter what). For the entire walk home I was forming this plan, I was dead serious in planning my suicide.
The fact that I didn't sleep the entire night probably had its effects on my decision-making at this time, and the entire walk home I plotted in all seriousness, but all the time I was in full knowledge that I needed a plan that lead to inevitable death. That is why I didn't think on executing it on exactly this day (Sunday, 30.). I always thought about it with the promotion to have death assured and that is why I didn't decide on death right here and there.
Back home I just laid on my bed and fell asleep for Sunday.
The next few days weren't better, however I was not this close (really, haarscharf), as I was on Sunday morning.

I didn't book a train ticket until the 02. because I was split between ending it and travelling home

The 03. and the positive reception by my father at Wuppertal HBF marked a partial turning point.

Unfortunately my mind is hazy with how things happened precisely, some 

## Days of Emergence

Date: 25.11-01.12 (2024)

The days of emergence (2024) mark the beginning of Aion. The gradual emergence my modern person.

It began with listenings of The Strangest Secret and a paper sheet that held my Strangest Secret, my one worthy ideal that I began working towards gradually realising. From the beginning my consideration was, how big or far in the future this goal should be. I decided to set the bar quite high, and inscribed "Become a billionaire" as my goal from the start (instead of a sub-goal such as become a millionaire or found a business). The file name of the first paper sheet is 20241116-173659. I began visualising a life that a billionaire would life and then put myself into his shoes ("you become what you think about").
That was the preface to the days of emergence.

I listened to The Strangest Secret multiple times and in retrospect I genuinely believe that was the catalyst for the emergence.
The emergence itself can be characterised as the gradual formation of the virtue personas and gradual formation of systemised 

The days 28.-30., culminating in the 01. were probably the best of my life, standing at the absolute peek.

## Days of Confusion

Date: 02.12-15.12 (2024)

The last day of the days of emergence was a last high before a prolonged fall. On the 01.12 I abandoned the previous assignments of the four (1. Lysander, wisdom, noble ruler 2. Kaelan, courage, fierce warrior 3. Ewan, temperance, moderate farmer 4. Maia, justice, loving mother) because I saw it as inelegant (the farmer and the loving mother didn't fit in with the rest in my eyes). On the 01 I still revelled in my virtuous behaviour in all of its glory, however by the mid of the day as I had abandoned the old personas it started to go south.

The next days after I was in search of new virtue personas, however meanwhile and without a guiding light I found it astonishing how fast my order broke down. To make things more complicated my mind fervently resisted the adoption of the new virtues, I was too attached to the old, and even when I tried to go back to old, it never felt the same.

The following time I didn't have any guiding start or persona, I was looking for a way out, but didn't find one.

## Day of Aion

Date: 16.12 (2024)

The day of Aion marks the day I centred the Aion persona on myself, the day I became Aion. 

It also marks the adoption of Acastus (philosopher king), Tyrian (general king), Kael (ascet king), and Erycius (arbiter king) as the four.

Additionally it introduced the antagonists and created a competitive field in the mind.

Finally it marks the beginning of the structure of 
1. Visions Mission 
2. Hands 
3. The Half (and the others)
4. The One
5. The Four

In addition to that I adopted mantras that would steel my resolve, a thing I deemed necessary to survive in the now competitive inner landscape.

Catalysts for the culmination of the days of confusion in the day of Aion were among others
1. One Piece, fishman island arc, still on the mangroves. How various captains all stood against each other and competed
2. The manga The Lazy Noble Masters the Sword. It served as inspiration for the mantras to steel my resolve and to give my all when training (and in life)
3. My mind had finally digested the switch from the old four to the new
4. I came to the realisation that I need to Aion, not just view him as external and strive to be him
