---
id: 623526d2-1bbb-474b-aa2e-cc792a525f05
title: Candlestick Chart
abstract: This note is about the candlestick chart which displays opening and closing price as well as high and low but in a better and easier to understand at a glance format than that of the bar chart.
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-03-31 21:22
last-modified: 2024-04-16 18:09
linter-yaml-title-alias: Candlestick Chart
aliases: [Candlestick Chart, Japanese Candlestick Chart]
access: public
language: en
tags: [chart/candlestick, ohlc, box-and-shadow]
up:
  - [[2024-03-08-13-23-34|Chart]]
prev-version:
  - [[Candlestick Chart]]
---

# Candlestick Chart

--- 

## Definition

A Candlestick Chart is a [[2024-03-08-13-23-34|Chart]] that displays the opening and closing price as well as high and low, but in a better format than the [[2024-03-31-21-17-48|Bar Chart]].

--- 

## General

The advantages of candlesticks over other chart types are that they are easy to interpret, easy to use they are good at identifying market turning points. 

--- 

## Body

The body of the candlestick chart is the box sitting at the center of a bar.

The upper part of the body represents either the closing price (when the body is colored white/green) or the closing price (when the body is colored black/red). It is the same the other way around, the bottom of the body either represents closing or or opening price.

The longer the body of the candlestick, the higher the respective buying or selling pressure is. A white long body means that the opening price is way below the closing price, indicating high buying pressure and vice versa.

--- 

## Shadow

The shadows of the candlestick chart are the lines above and below the body.

The upper shadow represents the highest price of the bar and vice versa.

The longer a respective shadow is, the more movement was in the market that is not represented in the closing price. When there is a high upper shadow then buyer drove the price up but sellers made the price go down before close again.

--- 

## References

- <https://www.babypips.com/learn/forex/types-of-charts>
