---
id: 02b95f05-e56b-407a-87f4-2d429b9996e7
title: Finance Quotes
aliases: [Finance Quotes]
note-author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-08-05T09:22:00+02:00
language: en
access: public
tags: []
modified: 2025-04-12T16:44:28+02:00
---

# Finance Quotes

---

## List

> **Q: What is your best piece of advice for someone considering day trading?**  
> *Trader A:* It is important to know yourself. Without understanding who you are and what kind of trader you are, you are doomed to fail. You have to know your time frame and style as a trader. Once you find your style of trading, you must become an expert in it and have an edge. New traders tend to jump from one style to the next in search for the Holy Grail. There is no Holy Grail in trading. One needs to understand that trading is a game of probabilities and psychology. The futures market is a zero-sum game. One person's mistake is another person's profit. Do not treat trading as a hobby. Hobbies cost money. Trading should be treated as a full-time job and business.

> Truth is stranger than fiction because fiction has to make sense. Markets don't.

> Awake or asleep, all I think about is money.

> Markets rise higher because of hope and drop lower because of fear. Fear is a much stronger emotion than hope. That is why markets tend to fall much quicker than they rise. I prefer to make my money on the short side, because I tend to make my profits much quicker on the short side than on the longe side  
-- Trader Tom

> For the vast majority of even the most diligent investors it's better for them to focus on increasing their earnings to buy more investments than it is to focus on hyper optimising their investments

> People that think more about their investments tend to make worse investments

> How are you gonna know that your strategy is the best if you keep breaking your rules?

> “As the old adage goes, the market goes up the stairs and out the window. This was an out-the-window moment.”  
-- On the selloff of NVIDIA on the first news of how Deepseek trained an AI model way cheaper while retaining quality

---

## Related Concepts

- broader:: [[20240111T190703|Quotes]]
- thematic:: [[20240111T191304|Business Quotes]]
- thematic:: [[20240111T191230|Strategy Quotes]]
- thematic:: [[20240111T192313|Leadership Quotes]]
- thematic:: [[20240111T191336|Diplomacy Quotes]]
