---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: c1aaf40d-9209-4159-8b6a-16692eb11a5d
created: 2024-11-29T21:23:00+01:00
archived: 2025-04-12T16:10:44+02:00
modified: 2025-02-07T21:50:37+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en, status/archived]
key-words: []
aliases: [Objectives Framework]
title: Objectives Framework
---

# Objectives Framework

---

## Objectives

### Purpose

To explain and utilise the intent-setting and guiding framework of objectives.

### Goals

1. [ ] Create an overview of the broad structure
2. [ ] Give context to its application in any kind of medium
3. [ ] Clearly delineate purpose, goals, and key questions
4. [ ] Dive into details in regard to their implementation

### Key Questions

---

## Summary

### Core Concept

The objectives framework establishes intentionality by setting specific aims for engagement.

### Components

1. **Purpose:** Statement of overarching reason for engaging with this material (why?)
2. **Goals:** Concrete achievements I aim for as a result of this engagement (what?)
3. **Key Questions:** Specific inquiries that will focus my attention and deepen my understanding (how?)

---

## Analysis

### How the Objectives Section Guides

**Provides Focus during Note-taking**  
The deliberate approach of the purpose section ensures that only the **most relevant information** get captured, filtering unnecessary details.

**Shapes the Process Step**  
It fosters critical engagement in the process step by asking **key questions** to be answered, aligning my reflection and analysis with my goals.

**Clarifies the Output Step**:  
It helps asses wether the output aligns with the purpose and goals, ensuring that the actionable step and insights are meaningful and connected to my objectives.

**Guides Future Engagement**  
When revising the note, the objectives sections serves as a **roadmap** to understanding:
- Why the note was created
- What questions were answered (or remain unanswered)
- How the note fits into my broader projects or knowledge base

---

## Application

### When to Fill the Objectives Section

The objectives section should be filled **before engagement**, to provide a roadmap for the incoming material, ensuring I approach the material with intentionality.

**During engagement** parts of the objectives might be revised, while the purpose might change seldom, the goals, and primarily, the key questions might be refined as understanding changes.

**After engagement** the objectives section should be consulted for reflection on the progress I made.

---

## Resources

---

## References


---

## Changelog 

- **[Saturday, 12 Apr 2025, 16:11:03]** Archived note  