---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 067b6839-22b7-49ae-bbb0-384ef5acc1b2
created: 2024-12-21T22:51:32+01:00
modified: 2025-04-12T17:37:54+02:00
tags: [access/private, language/en, tf/day]
key-words: []
aliases: [My Business Plan for Day Trading]
title: My Business Plan for Day Trading
---

# My Business Plan for Day Trading

**Valid from:** 04.08.2024

---

## Where I Am Now

I am about to start a career as a day trader. I have a total 10.000 Euros in capital that I can risk without affecting my livelihood. I will rely on the support payments of my father to cover my spending needs. This account will be grown for the long-term. I don't plan to extract any money for everyday spending-purposes. The goal is to build a principal and distribute money to longer-term accounts.

This business plan covers what I need to get started.

---

## Business Goals

In three months (04.12.2024) I will have a tested trading strategy that works well in simulation.

In six months (04.03.2025), I will be live trading daily. I will have lost no more than 1000 Euros of my trading capital.

In nine months (04.06.2025), I will be live trading daily, and I will have more winning trades than losing trades.

In a year (04.08.2025), I will have gained 10 percent on my account. I will have learned to program, mastered my first trading system, and will be testing a second one in order to expand my trading opportunities.

In three years (04.08.2027), my trading account will have 150.000 Euros in it from my trading successes, after making investments in my business and in longer-term accounts. I will be trading three different system with satisfactory success.

In five years (04.08.2029), I will have 500.000 Euros in my trading account. I will be known as a successful trader.

In ten years (04.08.2034), I will have 5.000.000 Euros in all of my financial accounts, and I will continue my record of trading success.

---

## Markets Traded

My primary trading strategy will involve momentum trades on S&P 500 and NASDAQ 100 future contracts. I will not put more than 10 percent of my capital into one trade, and I will close out positions each night.

I am interested in news-driven swing trading in large technology companies, so I will research and test strategies with those. I am also interest in trading Asian currencies, so I will make time to learn more about those markets and determine whether I can trade them effectively during my preferred trading hours.

---

## Trading Hours and Days

Because of my time arrangement for the day I will trade markets strictly every market day from 14:00 to 18:00 and generally from 18:00 until 22:00 Monday through Friday. I will use the time from 13:00 onward researching current trends and news events so that I know what people will be looking for that day.

I will not take any designated vacation. I will take off any day that I am ill so that I can maintain my health and concentration.

---

## My Business Setup

I will work from a home office. I use my desktop computer and my curved monitor, with my surface laptop on hand in case something goes wrong. I have cable Internet access with a mobile application on my phone as a backup.

I have an account with Admirals that holds all the functionally I need for trading. I use Yahoo Finance for information and news on markets, and TradingView for research. I also subscribe to Barron's and the Wall Street Journal, which I read every morning, during the day, and before my trading session to help me gauge sentiment and stay informed.

I track my trades in the day timeframe document.

---

## Investing in My Business

To stay successful in the long run, I need to keep my skills sharp. To do this, I will read one book on trading psychology or a successful trader's memoir each month. I will also work on simulation trading for swing trading in technology stocks because I plan to add that to my trading system.

As my trade profit grows, I will invest some of them in trying new trading techniques, knowing that I may have short-term losses until I understand a market better. I will spend one day at the end of each quarter on back testing and simulation of new strategies.

---

## Evaluating My Business Plan

During each Quarter review I will read over this business plan and make revisions.
