---
id: 6649a82f-aa7d-4f88-af44-74abbed7e8f1
note-author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-10-09T03:41:00+02:00
language: en
access: public
tags: []
aliases: ["True Christian from Balck's Memoirs"]
title: "True Christian from Balck's Memoirs"
modified: 2025-02-02T06:03:15+01:00
---

# True Christian from Balck's Memoirs

“The 22nd Jägers had suffered heavy losses during a failed attack on a Russian rear guard position on 29 August 1915. The attack broke down only a few paces in front of the enemy. My company had lost sixty men. Among the fallen was a young protestant pastor, Franz Tongers, an East Frisian war volunteer from the town of Norden. His father was a teacher there. The man had been a true Christian. He helped his comrades whenever he could. He dug positions for them; he went on guard duty for them; he carried their field packs when they did not feel well. His worship services were always packed, even though I never ordered anyone to go. He spoke at the graves of our fallen comrades, gave advice in family and relationship questions, and took care of the soldiers’ correspondence. He was an upstanding man who never hesitated to come to me and tell me what was right or wrong, or what should be done differently. Where he found the time and the energy to do all of this was a mystery to me. He turned down the opportunity to attend a reserve officer candidate course. He felt that[…]”

Excerpt From  
Order in Chaos: The Memoirs of General of Panzer Troops Hermann Balck (Foreign Military Studies)  
Hermann Balck  
This material may be protected by copyright.
