---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: a6f8a90a-ce3c-4d28-be0b-f55b4d600bc0
created: Monday, 20 January 2025, 04:28:33 UTC+01:00
modified: Monday, 20 January 2025, 04:35:33 UTC+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en]
key-words: [strategy, power-politics]
aliases: [Tit for Tat]
title: Tit for Tat
---

# Tit for Tat

---

## Objectives

**Purpose:**  
*Why am I engaging with this material?*
- To understand and learn to apply an interesting strategic approach, possibly useful for my dealings

**Goals:**  
*What concrete achievements do I aim for with this note?*
- [ ] Define tit for tat
- [ ] Give examples
- [ ] Analyse how to apply for my case

**Key Questions:**
*How will I achieve these aims?*
- 

---

## What Are the 4 Base Principles for an Effective Strategy?

- **Be nice:** cooperate, never be the first to defect.
- **Be provocable:** return defection for defection, cooperation for cooperation.
- **Don't be envious:** focus on maximizing your own 'score', as opposed to ensuring your score is higher than your 'partner's'.
- **Don't be too clever:** or, don't try to be tricky. Clarity is essential for others to cooperate with you.

--- 

## Why is Tit for Tat an Effective Strategy?

In the case of conflict resolution, the tit-for-tat strategy is effective for several reasons: the technique is recognized as *clear*, *nice*, *provocable*, and *forgiving*. Firstly, it is a *clear* and recognizable strategy. Those using it quickly recognize its contingencies and adjust their behavior accordingly. Moreover, it is considered to be *nice* as it begins with cooperation and only defects in response to competition. The strategy is also *provocable* because it provides immediate retaliation for **those who compete**.[^1] Finally, it is *forgiving* as it immediately produces cooperation should the competitor make a cooperative move.

#a/rC

[^1]: I belief this is the key element for adoption. Applying the general ruleset of tit for tat to everyone but only defecting when the opponent competes. This clears up some troubles one might otherwise have in close circles like family and friends. The world isn't a "100% competitive" place.
