---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 43343576-da8a-4ad1-bf10-32756b325d95
created: 2025-03-27T15:40:30+01:00
modified: 2025-03-27T15:54:22+01:00
tags: [pr/24/328, access/public, language/en]
key-words: [day-trading, futures]
aliases: [Trading Sessions]
title: Trading Sessions
---

# Trading Sessions

---

## Overview

---

## Markets Traded

I primarily, almost exclusively trade the US-American market because of its liquidity and potential price action. As I live in Central Europe, all times are adjusted for CET. Given that the adjustment for winter and summer time differs by about half a month to a full month in the USA and Europe, the adjusted times can be off by an hour.

---

## Pre-Market

**14:00-15:30**

Major economic news gets usually released around this area (commonly at 14:30). Futures trading (index futures) allows to capitalise on these movements, as trading close to around the clock. However, based on on the rather erratic movement of news, this slot has to be tread with caution and isn't recommended for beginners.

## Opening Bell

**15:30-17:30**

The golden timeframe for day traders. Most traders open their trades at the beginning of the market, leading to increased volatility to capitalise on.

---

## Midday Slump

**17:30-19:30**

Most traders leave for lunch, these hours see a reduction in trading volume. Not a good time to trade.

---

## Afternoon Session

**19:30-21:30**

This time often sees a continuation of the trends established at the opening.

---

## Power Hour

**21:30-22:00**

The final hour before the end of regular trading hours sees a spike in volatility, particularly caused by large institutions adjusting their positions for the night. Not recommended to be traded by beginners

---

## Changelog

- **[Thursday, 27 Mar 2025, 15:51:39]** Created note, initial fill of markets traded as well as all common trading sessions
