---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: a1f0b0dd-22d6-469a-9769-8db9cee7342c
created: 2025-05-11T20:31:53+02:00
modified: 2025-05-15T11:54:50+02:00
tags: [access/public, language/en]
key-words: []
aliases: [Corpus Principia White-paper]
title: Corpus Principia White-paper
---

# Corpus Principia White-paper

---

## Table

1. Introduction
	1. What it is
	2. What it governs
	3. How it evolves
2. First Part: Structural Foundation
	1. Infinite Nodes
	2. 12 Functional Clusters
		1. Purpose
		2. Structure
		3. Strategy
		4. Offering
		5. Work
		6. People
		7. Customer
		8. Financial
		9. Knowledge
		10. Infrastructure
		11. Adoption
		12. Environment
	3. 3 Structural Axes
		1. Doctrine
			1. Charter
			2. Policy
			3. Directive
			4. Execution
			5. Evolution
		2. Form
			1. Juridical
			2. Owneship
			3. Structural
			4. Temporal
			5. Modal
		3. Initiative
			1. Source of Initiative
			2. Style of Mandate
			3. Cadence
			4. Control
			5. Terminal
3. Second Part: Application
	1. Build
		1.
	2. Diagnose
	3. Evolve
4. Third Part: Guardianship
	1. Practice
		1. How to practice
		2. Where to practice
	2. Evolution
		1.
	3. Guardianship

---

## Introduction

### What It Is

Corpus Principia is a framework that enables the analysis of any kind of organisational design, no matter how it is structured, and the transformation/creation/diagnosis with concrete tools and established practices of an organisation from complete to any kind of level of detail required.

If it's an organisanisation, Corpus Principia can put it on paper
If it's on paper it can be analysed, transformed, evaluated.

### How It Functions

Corpus Principia abstracts every entity in an organisation to a node. The level of detail can be adjusted, it can range from departments all the way down to single files. One single node exists at minimum, that for the entire organisation.
Every has three axes of evaluation, with 5 sub-categories each. These 3 axes represent the minimum required to create a holistic year streamlined foundation for an analysis.

1. **Doctrine**: Doctrine is the codification of what forms the very body of any kind of institution. This ranges from purpose, over legal no-goes, to orders, checklists and reports. This is the most permeating of the three axes. Doctrine is generally the body of the entire institution (the top-level node), with different kinds of doctrine areas relevant to the local node
2. **Form**: A node has a certain structure, how it is organised. From who owns it to legal structures. These are the obvious areas, form also means temporal, or even interface (how one interacts with it)
3. **Initiative**: Initiative means the ability or the design of how the node acts or gets acted upon. Type commands, cadence of operation, how progress is controlled and verified.

These 3 axes can be applied to any kind of node to get a specific picture of how it operates.

The 12 functional clusters on the other hand are **unique to the entire organisation** (the top-level node). These represent the entirety of areas that a functioning company needs to address in some way or the other. Lower-level nodes can be analysed through the lens of how they relate to the functional clusters, but they never directly relate to it.

The 12 functional clusters are
1. Purpose
2. Structure
3. Strategy
4. Offering
5. Work
6. People
7. Customer
8. Financial
9. Knowledge
10. Infrastructure
11. Adoption
12. Environment

You might feel like the separation into clusters and axes isn't so elegant, particularly because there is some apparent overlap between the two. However, you have to think of the axes as tools which can be used to describe any kind of node. From an individual, over a team, to the entire company. Every node has its own kind of output for the 3 axes. They are analytical tools, they describe what is, no matter what form the node has.
The clusters on the other hand are top-down views of the company. They define what should be, what's relevant for one node, the company. The overlap is only there if you put those two things right next to each other, in practice they concern themselves with different cases, they essentially are different sides to look at a cube (the cube being the organisation).

## First Part: Structural Foundation

### 12 Functional Clusters

### 3 Structural Axes

## Second Part: Application
