---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: a3912856-d697-4bd4-8352-df8a3feaddea
created: 2025-04-07T15:17:10+02:00
modified: 2025-04-07T15:41:42+02:00
tags: [access/public, language/en]
key-words: [reading, books]
aliases: [Reading]
title: Reading
---

# Reading

---

## Overview

This is the central entry point to anything related to reading language, while writing does the same for writing, of enormous relevance there being the entire note-taking ecosystem.

---

## Selection of Reading Items

> [!todo]
> #a/rC Reformulate beyond books

Books are earmarked in the [[20250130T040738|Reading List]]. This list is the major aggregator for books across all categories. What's to be read next is decided more locally and relevant to the current environment and context. In other words, I'm free to read whatever I feel like is most important to read next.

---

## Reading Goal

> [!todo]
> #a/rC Reformulate beyond books

I aim to read as much as possible, at least 100 books a year, translating to around 2 books a week (52 weeks in the year). To achieve this aim, the first book has to be done (statistically) by noon of Thursday.
.
As I'm lacking in knowledge and ability currently, the current goal is set at 1 book a day. The concern here isn't the to fully integrate or understand the entire content of the books but to start a habit and build a knowledge base as fast as possible.

I read that Warren Buffet reads 500 pages a day. While that mostly consists of business reports and not books, which knowledge first has to be digested and then integrated, it still set an ambitious upper goal. I don't have the time (and time capital allocation) to read 500 pages a day, but I can still aim to read as much as possible. A *problem* I came across is how to measure my daily reading (metrics and whether I achieved my reading goal). I currently circumvent this by defining the daily reading time (measured in Apple Books). Not the most elegant solution (if the metric becomes the goal…), but the best approach I currently have identified.

---

## Changelog

- **[Monday, 07 Apr 2025, 15:25:44]** Created note and filled initial sections: Overview, Selection of Reading Items, Reading Goal
