---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 5ffeca4a-54af-4e09-88e3-6ce9b17beb6b
created: 2025-03-16T03:58:02+01:00
modified: 2025-03-17T22:17:27+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en, day]
key-words: []
aliases: [Summary of 2025-03-16]
title: Summary of 2025-03-16
---

# Summary of 2025-03-16

---

## Overview

---

## 22:30 To 02:00

Slept safte and soundly, without any kind of sleep support in the form of rain (thunder) sounds (immediately knocks me out), or the sleep lessons of Headspace. If consumed everyday, one grows dependent on them, maybe even needs them to calm down at all, turning unable to lay in silence. This is why raw-dogging sleep is my way to go, going forward.

---

## 02:00 To 04:00

Got up before my alarm, as unable to sleep (slept 11 hours during the day, yesterday, after all). Went through usual morning routine of getting up, drinking, visiting the toilet, intaking some Skyr with Leinsamen, and doing the Headspace meditation. I did my oaths and sat at my desk. I started reading in Marcus Aurelius Mediations again, something that I initiated yesterday, but got sidetracked by various Wikipedia articles, starting with a innocent search on Heraclitus (mentioned by Aurelius), which dove into Christian and philosophical territory and the cutting down of Irminsul (rip).

---

## 04:00 To 06:30

Writing this the day after, I think that I mostly read in Slime Tensei LN Vol 9.

---

## 06:30 To 11:00

Laid down to sleep for my regular nap from 06:45 to 07:25, couldn't fall asleep. Today was active recovery + mobility day for my workout after, which I decided to abandon after the first exercise. I went to nearby bakery Theurer and bought me some bread rolls (I ordered 10, as they have the offer of 5 rolls for just 2 euros, an offer they typically extend if someone orders 10, then only 4 euros. The woman serving me however didn't do that and made me pay 6 euros for plain 10 pieces :-( She put 2 more rolls in there tho, because they other ones were seemingly small, another thing they commonly do), as I was out of bread or other ingredients for breakfast. I made my meal, ate while continuing to read Slime Tensei LN Vol 9, and decided to lay down in bed, room dark, to read some more. I didn't really feel tired at this point, different than the last few days which had me sleep from around 07:00 all the way into afternoon (I'm adapting to a regular step-by-step), however still decided to sleep after.

---

## 11:00 To 17:30

Slept.

---

## 17:30 To 21:30

After waking up, I ate some more bred rolls and headed to Mannheim city using Nextbike (shared biking service). My first stopover was near the main central station, after which I crossed using the tunnel below the tracks to the other side, strolled along the Rhine Promenade, and arched back to University. It was dark that this point. I decided to extend my evening travels and take to Ludwigshafen on a route I did once before. Using a new bike I then crossed the Rhine and travelled through Ludwigshafen Mitte via bike and foot. From there on, I made my way back home.

## 21:30 To 22:30

Mostly slacked off, ate something and read some more
