---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: e58cdea1-a62e-4d6b-93c3-100d80018fc2
created: 2025-03-17T04:56:17+01:00
modified: 2025-03-17T22:17:45+01:00
tags: [access/public, language/en, day]
key-words: []
aliases: [Summary of 2025-03-17]
title: Summary of 2025-03-17
---

# Summary of 2025-03-17

---

## Overview

An unsuccessful day in terms of making progress. I've been stagnating the past few days after initial successes. A major point of contention is my oversleeping that stretches over the entire traditional day and leaves me without achieving anything that I set out to do.

---

## 22:30 To 02:00

As seen in the past few days, I'm unable to sleep all the way through 03:00, the reason being my sleep during the day.

---

## 02:00 To 03:00

I got up and followed a more or less typical morning routine, all the way to the Headspace meditation.

Headspace meditation: Like the blue sky, our enlightened nature is always with us. We meditate to remind us of the presence of the blue sky. This nature is always there, we just need to be reminded of it

---

## 03:00 To 06:30

In this span of time I almost exclusively consumed entertainment in the form of reading Slime Tensei LN Vol 9. I said the oaths at some point, but this had zero effect on me actually starting to do anything.

---

## 06:30 To 18:00

After I initially planned to start with the regular sports routine in the morning, I instead darkened the room and slept all the way to 18:00, using a rolling alarm for every 30 minutes from around 14:00 on.

---

## 18:00 To 21:00

I read some more in bed, then got up and headed out for a workout. Not yet incorporating the new training plan (the first 3 days after a pause or always acclimatisation), but still quite rigorous.

After coming back I went through the usual post-workout routine of stretching and taking supplements, then I shaved my head (a task that I don't really like for the time and effort it consumes) and showered.

---

## 21:00 To 22:30

I ate a meal consisting of noodles I had prepared yesterday and parmesan, read some more, at 21:30 started with the review of the day and as of writing this am on track for the end of the day meditation.
