---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: dcdddb62-f066-48b6-b1cb-b9f817de6510
created: 2025-04-07T15:51:50+02:00
modified: 2025-04-11T16:34:53+02:00
tags: [access/public, language/en, pr/25/099]
key-words: [reading, writing, notes]
aliases: [Note-Taking]
title: Note-Taking
---

# Note-Taking

---

## Overview

The central point for the major ecosystem of note-taking. It defines everything relevant into modular and structured **components**.

Note-Taking sits at the intersection of reading and writing. I will have to refine in the future where the need for an further system exists.

---

## Sources

> [!todo]
> #a/ex Gather from [[2024-07-27-17-58-05|Universal Tagging System]]

The source a note originates from. A note can always ever be be applied **on** to something, it isn't a means to and end of itself. That source might also be nothing but a quick thought, writing for example articles however crosses into the grey areas of note-taking and is served overlapping with a different system.

- **Books**
- **Lectures**
- **Podcasts**
- **Videos**
- **Meetings**
- **Conversations**

---

## Types

The type of note. There is a significant gap between a philosophical thought, already slightly fleshed out and "Buy milk". The philosophical thought here might be if there's really such a difference between these two things.

- **Reference**
- **Philosophical**
- **Project/Task Management**
- **Creative**
- **Collaborative**
- **Quick Jots**

---

## Frameworks

The toolkit accompanying note-taking. This is how the note will be structuredThese can be deployed independently from [[#Types|note type]] and adjusted to the situation at hand.

- **Linear Notes**
- **Mind Maps**
- **Flowcharts**
- **Sketch Notes**
- **Outlines**

---

## Phases

Phases are a vital component as they dissect the process of note-taking into distinct steps, that each have a different logical purpose. The aim here is not just take note, but to distill and digest, as well as make useful for future reference.

- **Harvesting** aims at extracting and expressing raw information "as-is". The aim is to get everything relevant on paper on not loose it to chaos.
- **Structuring** now aims at putting my personal print onto the raw information. This is the most flexible stage as it can be done in any way, form, and scope imaginable, as long as I **understand** and **internalise** it .
- **Synthesising** extracts and clinically dissects singular concepts from the raw information (in that sense the structuring phase is more of a bridge between phase 1 and 3). These get turned into atomic notes that can be referenced, developed or in any way used.

## Practices

This is the category for concrete approaches (so not structures as [[#Frameworks|frameworks]] represent).

- **Pre-Reading**
- **Highlighting**
- **Marginalia**
- **Symbolic**
- **Post-Reading**

---

## Conventions

Conventions are different styles and best practices developed over time, either forming naturally as arising needs or being defined centrally.

- **Titling**
- [Common practice]

---

## Application

While the sections above primarily deal with the different component forming the theoretical approaches, interconnected thought distinct. Here these disparate parts get tied together by applying them to concrete contexts.

- **Objectives**
	- Purpose
	- Goals
	- Key Questions
- **Reading a Book**
- **Listening to a Podcast**
- **Reading an Article**

---

## Templates

> [!todo]
> #a/ex add content on templates

---

## Changelog

> [!note]
> Not a component of the note-taking system, just a change log

- **[Monday, 07 Apr 2025, 16:12:16]** Created note and populated initial sections, consisting out of the content described in [[20250407T141546]]
