---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: bef2640c-42d7-49db-90fb-7649f3a250a2
created: 2025-02-21T11:42:32+01:00
modified: 2025-02-21T22:04:47+01:00
tags: [access/private, language/en, timeframe/tactical/day]
key-words: []
aliases: [Summary of 2025-02-21]
title: Summary of 2025-02-21
---

# Summary of 2025-02-21

---

## Overview

I started this day late, as I played Capitalism Lab until late in the night, but rebounded throughout the day by finally doing some work, which proved inefficient yet I came around to do it at all. In that sense I would rate the day successful.

---

## XX:XX To 04:00

I played Capitalism lab the entire day yesterday, a practice that arched into this day. I stopped at about 03:30 and later went to bed

---

## 04:00 To 11:30

I originally set the alarm for 08:30 but overslept until about 11:00.

After that I got up, put some laying around clothes in the wardrobe, and got dressed

---

## 11:30 To 13:30

I mostly did household chores. Washed Handwäsche clothes in the sink, vacuumed th floor, cleaned the batch, wind down the backlog of dirty tableware, and also ate breakfast.

---

## 13:30 To 14:30

d/P/F/K, AID, bbg

---

## 14:30 To 18:00

Actually turned my attention towards day trading index futures, executed two trades (turning 25 USD profit), which isn't significant for the profit, but for managing to do the trades at all, as I did have problems managing TWS previously.

## 18:00 To 21:00

I got dressed in my new clothes, the black Favela Studios hoodie, dark jeans and the light leather jacket and rode my bike to Uni. It was a breakout day in terms of temperature, first signs of spring with temperatures around 12 celsius. From Uni I walked through the inner city, moving to Paradeplatz and then in to the Wasserturm. I listened to the Mark Cuban episode of How I Built This and walked through Oststadt. On my way home again I decided to detour to McDonalds for my dinner and to enjoy the warm Friday evening in company.

After that I rode home.

---

## 21:30 To 22:30

At home I wasn't very productive but tried to do the evening wrap-up as best as possible.
