---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: 02cc51df-2563-4017-88a5-75547817d0b0
created: 2025-02-07T21:40:29+01:00
modified: 2025-02-07T21:42:25+01:00
tags: [access/private, language/en, timeframe/tactical/day]
key-words: []
aliases: [2025-02-01 Saturday]
title: 2025-02-01 Saturday
---

# 2025-02-01 Saturday

---

2025-02-01 04:00

I really hurts, just being. I am so conflicted by sexual (and romantic, but sexually inflected) tension, a permeating lamenting during my day-to-day, that it's hard to think of anything different. I am thinking of my previous years and I am seriously curious where all of the time went. There is nothing but a black hole between the finishing of Gynmnasium and right now. My entire early twenties are non-existent. I did nothing but shut myself in. No real character development, or any kind of progressive development occurred in this time, all I did was barely maintain the status quo.

To illustrate this predicament: I attended more lectures in my first two months in Bayreuth, than in the entire five years after, even though I was studying the whole time (with minor interruptions).

To briefly touch onto the shut-in part: The more you avoid leaving your house, the more it presents an unsurmountable barrier. It physically hurts even thinking about leaving your home, let alone going anywhere near University (in my case).

Now, back onto the topic of lost progress: While I'm still young (relatively speaking), the last few years are one of the pivotal timeframes of every human being (early 20s). They are where most of the education and development happens. Where the mind is fresh and primed, where there is plenty of energy and courage to dive into life. I however spent that time vegetating, doing nothing but sleeping and getting by somewhat. Character development? Learning? Socialising? I did nothing of that. One could say I am the same as I was after I left school (and learned to manage my day-to-day alone).

To arch back to the opening lines: This time also presents the frame, where socialising, exploration, eagerness for "genderly exchange" is at it peak. The vitality of youth is in its prime. Where many or most of varying experiences in that regard get made. I however missed out on all of that. And it's not going to come back. I am approaching 25, the peak of bodily development. From then on, there is no way up, it's all down (also see the age distributions of Olympic athletes for this argument specifically).

Every time I read or think of other men to live extremely successful lives (sexually, in this context), I am feeling depressed, how I never experienced anything even slightly resembling it, and let the opportunity slip into the past (the prime).

These are my concern regarding sexuality (only some of them, this is just a dump). What I am also concerned about is my legacy (already). I think not of the millionaires or successful people, I think of those that formed their generation, the truly outstanding and exceptional people whose names have been carved into the annals (and mostly were sexually successful, too). I have not done anything outstanding, not anything at all really, no perspective, trend, or angle to achieve something outstanding. Something to be remembered for.

2025-02-01 04:30

Probably the vulgarity of a woman giving her favour in some way. The objectified abuse of her. These things create this immense internal turmoil inside of me. Knowing that I can't have that (or rather, that it's not me), and the predicament that is my arousement over ntr in private moments rips me apart internally.

The vulgar use of a woman out of a power position for the sexual gratification of a man. That might be an accurate description for what the core of my dilemma is about.

The knowledge that in specific scenarios she is willing and someone gets off of (in) her.

The thought is too obscene for me to handle. It turns me on in private moments and the more produces intense burning hatred in public ones.
