---
owner: Ben Jendyk
id: fd67a217-7442-4b83-9148-9494d8d27909
created: 2025-02-07T21:42:25+01:00
modified: 2025-02-07T21:42:50+01:00
tags: [access/private, language/en, timeframe/tactical/day]
key-words: []
aliases: [2025-02-02 Sunday]
title: 2025-02-02 Sunday
---

# 2025-02-02 Sunday

---

2025-02-02 03:00

I woke up at around 02:00 and started my day a little earlier.

One thing I remember from the time I was in full alignment with the four (for about a week end of November 2024), is that I was lamenting how much effort upholding the attention cost me. Mixed together with some fear that I might not be able to continue the practice or get the same feeling in the future. I have to invest my attention into the four, I drew the comparison of investing into production facilities before reaping the results (or spending money - time - on productive means), similarly I have to return my focus on the four.

I feel like the structured approach revolving around the half-hour timeframes helped adoption as nearly every timeframe I reinforced my goal and the four.

Today's Headspace meditation, titled Embracing Uncertainty, revolved around embracing the ever changing nature of things, instead of clinging to things, creating hopes and fears. We want certainty, but certainly binds things down, letting go creates a sense of freedom.

Notes I took during the meditation:

"To secure something is to bind, it to keep it still.

In embracing uncertainty we discover an ever changing freedom and flow.

If we're trying to secure everything to control it that means trying to hold onto it. Which creates a tension as it cannot flow

Hope that we can maintain it and fear that we cannot

Allow things to just unfold - no kind of hope and fear"
