---
id: 37b4d8eb-2dfa-46aa-af99-ed772ef32848
title: Margin
abstract: "This note is the focal point for anything related to and branching from one of the most important things to understand when trading: Margin. It means borrowing money to open bigger positions."
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-03-05 07:02
aliases: [Margin]
access: public
language: en
tags: [investing, fundamentals, margin]
up:
  - [[2024-04-01-19-17-39|Trading Key Concepts and Terminologies]]
  - [[2024-04-02-07-48-34|Account Management]]
prev-version:
  - [[+Margin (board)]]
  - [[20230406162308 Margin trading]]
  - [[20230409165526 How to avoid a Margin Call]]
modified: 2024-11-28 15:25
---

# Margin

--- 

## Definition

Margin[^1] is the amount of money you are required to deposit with your trading platform in order to order and maintain positions in the forex market. Margin is used as collateral to ensure you can cover any losses you might incur on your positions.[^2]

--- 

## Margin Trading

Margin trading means borrowing money in order to open bigger positions. It is the amount of money that you yourself have and [[2024-03-05-08-59-40|Leverage]] means how much bigger of a position you are able to open. With a leverage of 50:1 and a margin requirement of 2% you could open a position of 100.000 Euro with just 2.000 Euro margin.

## Margin Requirement

[[2024-03-05-09-16-45|Margin Requirement]] is the *percentage* of the "full position" (or "Notional Value") size required in margin to open the trade.

--- 

## Required Margin

(or Deposit Margin, Entry Margin, or Initial Margin)

[[2024-03-05-09-20-50|Required Margin]] is the *specific amount* in margin required to open the trade.

--- 

## Used Margin

[[2024-03-31-21-11-07|Used Margin]] is the amount of Required Margin of all open positions. Not tied to a specific trade but the sum of margin required to keep all trades open. 

--- 

## Free Margin

(or Usable Margin, Usable Maintenance Margin, Available Margin, and "Available to Trade")

[[2024-03-05-08-48-28|Free Margin]] is the difference between Equity and Used Margin, or all Equity that is not "locked up" (Used Margin) to keep positions open. 

--- 

## Margin Level

[[2024-03-05-09-12-31|Margin Level]] is the percentage value of Free Margin of Equity. The higher the Margin Level percentage the higher the Free Margin.

--- 

## Margin Call (Level)

**[[2024-03-05-09-11-31|Margin Call Level]]**: Threshold that will trigger a Margin Call. Specific percentage value of the margin level.

**[[2024-03-05-09-10-18|Margin Call]]**: An event that occurs when the Margin Call Level is crossed. Your broker will inform you in some way.

--- 

## Stop Out (Level)

A [[2024-03-05-09-27-45|Stop Out Level]] is when your Margin Level falls to a specific percentage level in which one or all of your open positions are closed automatically ("liquidated") by your broker. A [[2024-03-05-09-26-32|Stop Out]] is the actual process of liquidation.

--- 

## How to Avoid a Margin Call

1. **Know the [[Margin Requirement]] before placing orders[^3]**:  
Margin is not deducted from the [[Free Margin]] for [[Pending Order]]s until it is filled. Calculate the [[Required Margin]] of all unfilled orders and ensure you don't cross the [[Margin Call Level]].   
2. **Use [[Stop Loss Order]]s or [[Trailing Stop]]s**[^3]
3. **Scale in positions rather than entering all at once[^3]**:  

Instead of opening one big position, enter an amount of smaller positions. This means the risk is more spread out and if the price moves in your favor you can adjust different stop loss levels or even lock in profits.

[^1]: <https://www.babypips.com/learn/forex/what-is-margin>
[^2]: <https://www.babypips.com/learn/forex/margin-cheat-sheet>
[^3]: <https://www.babypips.com/learn/forex/how-to-avoid-margin-call>
