---
id: 8f850c6b-2de8-40db-9349-a7f2dbca362b
title: Anime
aliases: [Anime]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-02-09T18:56:00+01:00
archived: 2025-03-15T02:48:28+01:00
modified: 2025-02-02T06:08:28+01:00
language: en
access: archived 
tags: [streaming, series, entertainment, television, anime, isekai, fantasy]
abstract: This note is a quite specific category about anime, the japanese version of cartoons.
up:
  - [[2024-02-09-18-56-51|Movies & TV & Streaming]]
down:
  - [[2024-02-09-18-55-14|Watch List Anime]]
prev-version:
  - [[2024-02-23-16-54-55|Anime]]
---

# Anime

---

## Definition

Anime is the japanese pendant of cartoons. They are mainly based on well received manga, with the implementations ranging from short ones, mainly used as an advertisement for the manga, to long spanning ones like [[One Piece]] (which, amusingly, still serves as an advertisement for the manga, albeit unwillingly).

## Watch Soon

- violet evergarden
- AOT
- Neon Genesis Evangelion

---

## A Wie

- Fairy Tail
- Steins Gate
- MUSHOKU TENSEI: JOBLESS REINCARNATION

---

## E Wie

- IS: Infinite Stratos (season 2)
- KissXsis (episode 5 [starting with 0])
- Yosuga no Sora
- To Love-Ru (episode 12)
- ?Shinmai Maou no Testament
- Gosyusha-sama ninomya-kun
- THE FRUIT OF GRISAIA
- The Quintessential Quintuplets
- Rosario+Vampire  
- THE WORLD GOD ONLY KNOWS

---

## C wie…

- Avatar

---

## I Wie

- FULL DIVE: THE ULTIMATE NEXT-GEN FULL DIVE RPG IS EVEN SHITTIER THAN REAL LIFE!
- wise mans grandchild
- shield hero
- arifureta
- kuma kuma bear
- my next life as a villainess
- in another world with my smartphone
- re:zero  
- no game no life-movie and series
- overly cautious hero is overpowered
- demon lord retry
- devil is a part timer  
- overlord
- 8th son are you kiding me
- high school prodigies have it easy in another world
- death march to a parallel world
- log horizon
- erased
- noblesse but dont know if it counts
- by the grace of the gods
- sao
- gate
- How not to summon a demon lord
- Ascendance of a Bookworm
- So I'm a Spider, So What?
- KonoSuba
- Saga of Tanya the Evil
- Darwin's Game
- BOFURI
- CHOYOYU
- Didn't I Say to Make My Abilities Average in the Next Life?!
- Misfit of Demon King Academy (no less Isekai than say Inuyasha. Not a true isekai, but isekai-adjacent)
- Dr. Stone (Same as Misfit of Demon King Academy)
- Deca-Dence (In a very complicated position, less of an isekai than Misfit, Inuyasha, or Dr. Stone, equal to SAO)
- Re:Creators
- Isekai Cheat Magician
- Okaasan Online (I genuinely dislike this show, but it's fine if you can get past the cringe)
- Demon Lord, Retry!
- Z/X (Card Game anime that doesn't play the game. It's like a discount store-brand Gate.)
- Ixion Saga DT (Honestly one of the best isekai out there. Watch it like you would watch The Room)
- .Hack (Because you mentioned SAO)

---

## Empfehlungen

- ?Your Name
- Spirited Away
- THE ANCIENT MAGUS' BRIDE

## Miscellaneous

- YOUJO SENKI MOVIE (für Schreibtisch ab 1:32:30)

#a/rS most of this note was copied from someone else and from somewhere else
