---
id: 120b337c-ce20-4b48-911e-0eb9c715d239
title: Sasaki and Peeps
aliases: [Sasaki and Peeps]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-01-11T15:22:00+01:00
archived: 2025-03-15T02:38:40+01:00
modified: 2025-03-15T02:38:41+01:00
language: en
access: private 
tags: [anime, review, isekai, access/private]
abstract: This note holds everything related to the anime Sasaki and Peeps from my perspective, my review primarily.
up:
  - [[2024-02-09-18-56-31|Anime]]
---

#a/eX

# Sasaki and Peeps

---

## Critique

Title: *A modern man experiencing present and medieval adventures. Magic and middle schoolers.*

#a/rC Change headers to match the different parts of the title

- Title actually matches content, or rather this is what is promised or expected from the story and the same thing got delivered
- Content doesn't branch in some ridiculous direction after briefly touching its premise
- Good balance between the two worlds

**On modern man**

**On women and children in the story**

The author seems to have a particular taste for making everything female to be in their teens. While this might be a way to expand the ever shrinking work force (child labor) of Japan it is alienating and amusing quite fast #a/rF.

I mention this subject at all and in a rather provocative way because it (in my perception) is the only thing that is odd (weird). You have a reasonably well written story, aimed at catering to your average male and the author just keeps on making every woman the protagonist encounters in their teens/a middle schooler. Sasaki is pure in heart and soul (mind and soul?) but some questionable chapters (i.e. not from the view of Sasaki) give me the vibes of a person (the author) talking to a generative AI model (Sasaki) and just throwing in stuff like "and he met an extremely sexy young girl, oh, did I mention, she is a child" and the AI (or Sasaki here) desperately tries to make it wholesome.

I don't talk about this at all to drive possible readers away from the story, or shame people for enjoying it. As this is my review (or rather, written in the form of a review) of the book(s) it incorporates every aspect that I feel like touching on. The content in the book related to this section may be smaller than presented here, it is however one of the main things I have pondered upon.  
I am not too judgemental about age differences between people in their younger years, even between older and younger, they are easy to ignore and it isn't my place to judge, but opportunities like this are always good for reviewing and possibly amending your own moral framework.  
The Japanese have a particular and for western audiences sometimes foreign culture of youth, culminating in the concept of "loli". I wouldn't say it is impossible to apply western cultural norms (such as "you shouldn't lewd that child") as I see them as objectively more correct. People in a position of weakness (here, immaturity and inexperience) have to be protected from exploitation. It is more, that everything is relative, a flowing shade of grey instead of only polar positions. Is it alright to have people this young appearing in the story? What if they are the only ones (female) appearing? Is it okay if they are not sexualised? If they are sexualised and she is underage, is that in ones moral framework? Would one drop a whole series because of it, even if it is the only "bad" thing? To which age of the male counterpart is it okay? What if she is 18 but he is in his 40s? These question are not necessarily related to this story but rather to life itself, they do however arch back and lead to: *but is the appearance of so many young women (even just the plain appearance, any sexualising aside) truly a bad or immoral thing or does it possibly only leave a stench or instinctive cognitive aversion*?

To reiterate my position after the end of this paragraph rather going adrift on the purpose of reviewing the book:

**On business and work**

**On perception of beauty**

**On world building**

This story doesn't create a grand world, I would even say the story does no world building (figuratively). Everything is grabbed straight from the reader's knowledge. There needs to be no context-setting, the story originates from a common modern day. Even the fantasy setting doesn't venture into unexplored terrain, one needs to only have consumed at least a slight amount of cultural influencial content to be able to grasp the second world just like our own.

**Conclusion**

All in all a quite entertaining and enjoyable story, we follow a modern man that could be any one of us really, on a believable path (a well tread albeit) from stuck in his ways to getting to enjoy the perks of life in not only one, but two worlds.

But please, for the love of god, stop introducing children into the story 😭
