---
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-12-30 18:22
archived: 2024-12-19 10:43
last-modified: 2024-04-25 00:19
linter-yaml-title-alias: Layer 1 - Foundation
aliases: [Layer 1 - Foundation]
tags: [self-improvement, morals, ethics, religion, spirituality, lmf/layer-1, access/archived]
up: [[2023-12-30-17-57-04|Life Management System]]
next: [[2023-12-30-18-46-33|Layer 2 - Strategic Planning]]
title: Layer 1 - Foundation
---

# Layer 1 - Foundation

--- 

## Introduction

The bedrock of my life philosophy, encompassing my overarching mission, vision, and core values.

--- 

## Structure

- [[2024-02-12-09-34-12|Plan Personal Religion]]
- Life Lessons Learned
- Fundamental Experiences

--- 

## Archive

1. **Mission Statement**
	 - **Purpose**: Articulates your immediate purpose and role in life.
	 - **Focus**: What you aim to do, whom you want to serve, and the impact you wish to have.
	 - **Example**: "To empower others through innovative solutions and compassionate service."
2. **Vision Statement**
	 - **Purpose**: Describes the future you aspire to create or achieve.
	 - **Focus**: Long-term goals and the ideal scenario you are working towards.
	 - **Example**: "To contribute significantly to a sustainable and equitable world through my professional and personal endeavors."
3. **Core Values**
	 - **Purpose**: Defines the fundamental beliefs and principles guiding your decisions and actions.
	 - **Focus**: Reflects what is most important to you, serving as your moral compass.
	 - **Example**: Values like "Empathy", "Sustainability", "Creativity", "Accountability."
4. **Vision of Ideal Self**
	 - **Purpose**: Envisions the attributes and qualities you strive to develop in yourself.
	 - **Focus**: Personal characteristics, behaviors, and attitudes that align with your mission and values.
	 - **Example**: Being a lifelong learner, demonstrating resilience in adversity, embodying empathetic leadership.
5. **Spiritual/Philosophical Anchors**
	 - **Purpose**: Provides grounding and perspective in life.
	 - **Focus**: Beliefs or philosophies that offer a sense of meaning or connection beyond the material aspects of life.
	 - **Example**: Commitment to mindfulness practices, adherence to specific ethical principles, or following a religious faith.
