---
id: 791b1f23-2c2e-45c2-92e9-573811babc06
title: "20230212181807"
abstract: ''
author: 
created: 2023-02-12 18:18
archived: 2024-03-26 18:01
last_modified: 2023-05-09 16:45
tags: [todo/reform, access/archived]
access: archived
status: 
language: 
aliases: []
---

# 20230212181807

> [!Info]  
> up::  
> same::  
> down::  
> next::  
>

> prev::
> ---  

>
> see also::  
> on::  
>

> notes::
> ---

>
> template:: [[Note (template)|Note (template)]]  
> version:: 1

Remember that the rationale for building low-quality MVPs is that developing any features beyond what early adopters require is a form of waste. However, the logic of this takes you only so far. Once you have found success with early adopters, you want to sell to mainstream customers. Mainstream customers have different requirements and are much more demanding.

We want to create a legal tech startup in Germany. Our current aim is B2C. We want to capitalize on the recent technological advances in Natural Language Processing and create a chatbot on a website that, first specialized on a smaller legal field to iterate on the product, guides the user through the process and answers him legal questions to the best of his ability. Our business model comes at the end of the advice process, if a document needs to be generated the user needs to pay, our idea is to have a lawyer review that generated document and "put a stamp on it". It basically is a two sided process. On the one hand is the AI that guides the user and on the other hand the lawyer that verifies the generated document. Our main aim is to push that ratio as much as possible to the side of the AI.

1. How do we need to protect user data under the GDPR?
2. What kind of consent do we need to obtain from users for processing their data?
3. Can we legally use the data collected from user conversations for improving the chatbot's performance?
4. What are the laws and regulations that apply to chatbots providing legal advice?
5. Are there any restrictions on the types of legal advice we can offer through the chatbot, how do ensure the accuracy of the chatbot?
6. What are the potential legal liabilities for providing inaccurate legal advice through the chatbot?
7. Can we outsource the verification of generated documents to lawyers, and what are the legal implications of doing so?
