---
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-12-30 17:57
archived: 2024-12-19 10:47
last-modified: 2024-04-18 10:40
linter-yaml-title-alias: Life Management Framework
aliases: [Life Management Framework]
tags: [project-management, time-management, health, finances, work, personal, overview, access/archived]
up: [[2024-02-14-04-51-59|Falen]]
down:
  - [[2023-12-30-18-22-12|Layer 1 - Foundation]]
  - [[2023-12-30-18-46-33|Layer 2 - Strategic Planning]]
  - [[2024-01-12-22-27-11|Layer 3 - Well-being and Performance]]
  - [[2023-12-30-18-47-35|Layer 4 - Execution Tools]]
  - [[2023-12-30-18-48-19|Layer 5 - Major Life Areas]]
  - [[2023-12-30-18-50-10|Layer 6 - Minor Life Areas]]
title: Life Management Framework
---

# Life Management Framework

---

## Introduction

Life Management Framework is the top level description, a selection of tools, and a system that ties all of its components together, designed to provide a structured approach to life. It tries to abstract and distill life as good as possible into defined categories that can be planned, tracked, and acted upon.  
It has 6 layers of different levels of abstraction, [[2023-12-30-18-22-12|Layer 1 - Foundation]], [[2023-12-30-18-46-33|Layer 2 - Strategic Planning]], [[2023-12-30-18-47-35|Layer 3 - Execution Tools]], [[2024-01-12-22-27-11|Layer 4 - Supporting Health Areas]], [[2023-12-30-18-48-19|Layer 5 - Major Life Areas]], and [[2023-12-30-18-50-10|Layer 6 - Minor Life Areas]]. Each layer contains plans (grouped under the layers based on similarity, from general to more specific) that are structured in a similar and predefined way and address a certain topic. 

---

## Structure

- [[2023-12-30-18-22-12|Layer 1 - Foundation]]: Includes plans that define or significantly impact your life's purpose, ethical compass, and long-term life direction. If a plan shapes your identity or fundamental aspirations, it's part of this layer.  
- [[2023-12-30-18-46-33|Layer 2 - Strategic Planning]]: Plans that set new objectives, redefine your life's priorities, or allocate time and resources for specific outcomes fit here. If it's about strategizing 'what' and 'when' to achieve in alignment with your foundation, it belongs in this layer.
- [[2023-12-30-18-47-35|Layer 3 - Execution Tools]]: Includes plans related to daily operations, forming new habits to support your goals, and methods to monitor and adjust your approach. If a plan is about the practical 'how' of achieving your goals, it fits here.
- [[2024-01-12-22-27-11|Layer 4 - Well-being and Performance]]]: Plans that focus on developing, maintaining, or enhancing aspects of personal health and wellness fit here. If a plan is specifically aimed at improving your physical, mental, or emotional well-being as a means to better execute other life goals and tasks, it belongs in this layer.
- [[2023-12-30-18-48-19|Layer 5 - Major Life Areas]]: Plans that directly influence your primary areas of life, whether it's personal development, key relationships, main professional activities, or essential personal interests, should be included. If it's a plan that affects the main pillars of your life, it belongs in this layer
- [[2023-12-30-18-50-10|Layer 6 - Minor Life Areas]]: Plans revolving around enhancing life quality, such as leisure activities, personal interests, or community involvement, should be categorized here. If it's about adding depth and enjoyment to your life rather than essential survival or primary goals, it fits in this layer.
