---
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2023-12-30 18:46
archived: 2024-12-19 10:47
last-modified: 2024-02-17 05:27
linter-yaml-title-alias: Layer 2 - Strategic Planning
aliases: [Layer 2 - Strategic Planning]
tags: [personal/improvement, strategy, time-management, task-management, access/archived]
up: 
  - [[2023-12-30-17-57-04|Life Management Framework]]
next: 
  - [[2023-12-30-18-47-35|Layer 3 - Execution Tools]]
prev: 
  - [[2023-12-30-18-22-12|Layer 1 - Foundation]]
---

# Layer 2 - Strategic Planning

--- 

## Introduction

Focuses on setting concrete goals, establishing life priorities, and managing time.

--- 

## Structure

- [[2024-02-12-18-02-41|Plan Time Plan]]

---

## Archive

1. **Goal Setting Framework**
	 - **Purpose**: To establish a clear and structured approach for setting goals.
	 - **Focus**: Differentiating between short-term, medium-term, and long-term goals across all aspects of life. This includes creating SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-bound) goals that align with your foundational mission and vision.
2. **Life Priorities Identification**
	 - **Purpose**: To identify and clarify key focus areas in your life.
	 - **Focus**: Determining what aspects of your life are most important and deserve more attention and resources. This process involves evaluating and balancing various facets such as career, health, relationships, personal growth, etc., to ensure they align with your core values.
3. **Time Management System**
	 - **Purpose**: To allocate time effectively and efficiently in alignment with your goals and priorities.
	 - **Focus**: Developing a system that helps in prioritizing tasks, managing daily schedules, and avoiding procrastination. This includes techniques like time blocking, prioritization matrices (e.g., Eisenhower box), and tools for minimizing distractions.
4. **Strategic Planning Techniques**
	 - **Purpose**: To provide a set of tools and methods for creating and refining your life’s strategic plan.
	 - **Focus**: Utilizing techniques such as SWOT analysis (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats), vision boards, and milestone mapping to create a clear path towards your objectives.
5. **Decision-Making Strategies**
	 - **Purpose**: To enhance your ability to make well-informed decisions.
	 - **Focus**: Developing strategies and frameworks for decision-making, such as cost-benefit analysis, pros and cons lists, and the use of decision-making models like rational decision-making or intuitive choices.
6. **Review and Adjustment Mechanisms**
	 - **Purpose**: To regularly review and adjust your strategies and plans.
	 - **Focus**: Setting up regular review sessions (like monthly or quarterly reviews) to assess progress towards goals, reflect on the effectiveness of current strategies, and make necessary adjustments.
