---
id: 9e719253-b57a-4f85-aa9d-7ec085b187f8
title: Plan Directives
abstract: This note analyses and plans the topic of directives, law-like guidelines how to act in different scenarios.
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-04-16 18:14
archived: 2025-01-14 06:00
last-modified: 2024-04-25 00:06
linter-yaml-title-alias: Plan Directives
aliases: [Plan Directives]
access: archived
language: en
tags: [plan, access/archived]
broader:
  - [[2023-12-30-18-47-35|Layer 3 - Execution Tools]]
plan-component:
  - [[2024-02-20-21-02-48|Directives]]
  - [[2024-04-19-14-31-10|Personal Directives]]
  - [[2024-03-12-06-20-29|System Directives]]
---

# Plan Directives

---

## Introduction

Plan directives introduces a tool of law-like nature (directives) that once created ("enacted") steers the specific context it covers.  
Directives are split into two types (for now) which aim at slightly different sectors.

1. Personal Directives: They can control anything in my personal life, from how I sleep, what I do after waking up, what I eat and drink (or should not), even what my face should look like when strolling (i.e. relaxed and not tense).
2. System Directives: They cover how to act specifically in a productivity system of mine. Mainly Obsidian.

Both types can regulate anything one can think of.

--- 

## Situation Analysis

### Current Context (as of [2024-04-18])

Up until now directives were a organically grown instrument I didn't actually apply in my everyday all that often.

### SWOT Analysis

- **Strengths**: 
	- Can regulate anything thinkable of
	- Easy and quick to use
	- Lightweight
- **Weaknesses**:  
	- Without specifically attributable ID or number
- **Opportunities**: 
	- Integration into everyday
	- Understanding how it integrates with different system (principles for example)
- **Threats**: 
	- Not actually applying the directives
	- Not checking the directives often enough to know about their content

### Resources and Constraints

I use Drafts as the location for the personal directives and Obsidian for system directives.

--- 

## Plan Goals

*List broad goals for the plan, focusing on the long-term development and refinement of this topic.* 

- **Make use of**: I want to not only create but also actually apply directives. They have to be like laws indeed, impossible to break.
- **Be useful**: They should not only be constraints but serve as a tool.

---

## Directives

"[[2024-02-20-21-02-48|Directives]] are singular enactments that regulate possibly whatever in my personal life."

--- 

## Personal Directives

[[2024-04-19-14-31-10|Personal Directives]] are a sub type of Directives that handle anything from how I act to specific workflows and routines in my everyday life.

--- 

## System Directives

[[2024-03-12-06-20-29|System Directives]] are another sub type of Directives that handle how to act in my productivity systems.

--- 

## Location of Directives

1. **Personal Directives**: Located in their own workspace in drafts. Simply add the tag "directive/personal" and the directive gets categorised accordingly.
2. **System Directives**: 0-2 in Falen, Obsidian. They are created, developed, and moved just like any other note. Add the tag "directive/system" after finishing the setup and move it to the Directives folder in Administration.

--- 

## Form of a Directive

Directives don't follow a strict form and can be adapted to the local system used to store respective directives.

1. Drafts: The very first line is the directive. It is formulated as a statement and kept as short as possible. If the directive needs elaboration, then place one empty line and any further content below.
2. Obsidian: The 
--- 

## Enactment of a Directive

The enactment (mystified creation essentially) is not too complicated. Once written down ([[#Form of a Directive|see also form]]), and [[#Location of Directives|stored in the appropriate place]], the directive is active and to be used ("enacted").

--- 

## Review of Directives

Directives should be reviewed regularly. There isn't really a specified time other than "as often as possible". The point is to know which ones exist, where to apply them and have direct knowledge wether in breach of (on purpose or inadvertently).

--- 

## Violation of a Directive

When in violation of a directive, write it down in Drafts and add it to the day workspace via the day tag.

#a/eX with further actions taken on violation

--- 

## Sunset of a Directive

Once I identify directives that are obsolete, I archive them.

--- 

## Directives Replacing Recurring Reminders

A practice I frequented was to create repeating Reminders in Apple Reminders for tasks (actions) that need to be done repeatedly, if not daily. I was never happy with that solution as it cluttered Apple Reminders, place of all of my actions (and full enough by itself), and didn't really lead to me actually doing the thing (I would say I avoided doing it even more).  
For any repeating action I will use directives (personal most commonly) from now on. Directives by themselves are formulated as actions and there exists a (albeit small) system to track violations.

--- 

## Implementation Strategy

I intend on checking the existing directives as often as possible, to ensure I am aware of what I can do, should, and should'nt do. Additionally I assure to stay true to the enacted directives as much as it is possible.

--- 

## Reflections and Adjustments

- **[Date]**: 
	- **Reflections**: *(Summary of insights from recent reviews or experiences.)* 
	- **Adjustments Made**: *(Detail any changes or updates to the system.)* 
