---
id: 11059dd8-1c57-48a1-8619-1dad885925c1
title: Life Management System
aliases: [Life Management System, LMS]
abstract: This note serves as the central hub for a system that tries to create a structured approach to living one's life.
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-06-06 15:03
archived
last-modified: 2024-06-06 16:41
access: archived
language: en
tags: [productivity, hub, personal-development, access/archivedz]
---

# Life Management System

--- 

## Overview

Life Management System is a comprehensive approach to bring a structured format to everything in one's life. It aims to make every aspect plannable, to allow one to create structures for anything he desires after pre-formulated conditions.  

--- 

## Domains

### Overview

Broad categories representing general areas of focus in your life or work. Domains provide the overarching context and guide the creation of specific strategies, frameworks, and implementations.

### List of Domains

--- 

## Strategies

### Overview

Detailed plans and objectives within each Domain. Strategies define specific goals and outline the tasks and activities needed to achieve those goals.

### List of Strategies

--- 

## Frameworks

### Overview

Structured approaches and methodologies derived from Strategies. Frameworks organize tasks and activities into coherent processes, providing a systematic method to achieve the goals set in the Strategies.

### List of Frameworks

--- 

## Implementations

### Overview

Practical, actionable steps and tools used to execute Strategies or Frameworks in real-world scenarios. Implementations bring the theoretical plans and structured frameworks to life through concrete actions.

### List of Implementations

--- 

## Timeframes

### Overview

Specific periods used for organizing and tracking tasks and activities. Timeframes ensure systematic progress and regular review, helping to maintain focus and alignment with goals over time.

### List of Timeframes

--- 

## Visualisations

### Overview

Visual representations that map out relationships and contexts between different elements of the productivity system. Visualizations help in understanding and analyzing how various components interact and support each other.

### List of Visualisations
