---
id: 6bff3d92-d3ad-4ad0-830e-eea2411fc9c2
title: Temporary Anime Watchlists
aliases: [Temporary Anime Watchlists]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-03-19 16:50
archived: 2024-11-23 02:20
last-modified: 2024-10-23 15:36
language: en, de
access: archived
tags: [temporary, access/archived]
abstract: This note is only temporary and contains various listings of Animes.
up:
  - [[2024-02-09-18-56-31|Anime]]
---

#a/rS 

# Temporary Anime Watchlists

watch soon  
violet evergarden  
AOT  
Neon Genesis Evangelion

A wie…:  
Fairy Tail  
Steins Gate  
MUSHOKU TENSEI: JOBLESS REINCARNATION

E wie…:  
IS: Infinite Stratos (season 2)  
KissXsis (episode 5 [starting with 0])  
Yosuga no Sora  
To Love-Ru (episode 12)  
?Shinmai Maou no Testament  
Gosyusha-sama ninomya-kun  
THE FRUIT OF GRISAIA  
The Quintessential Quintuplets  
Rosario+Vampire  
THE WORLD GOD ONLY KNOWS  

C wie…:  
Avatar

I wie…:
FULL DIVE: THE ULTIMATE NEXT-GEN FULL DIVE RPG IS EVEN SHITTIER THAN REAL LIFE!  
wise mans grandchild  
shield hero  
arifureta  
kuma kuma bear  
my next life as a villainess  
in another world with my smartphone  
re:zero  
no game no life-movie and series  
overly cautious hero is overpowered  
demon lord retry  
devil is a part timer  
overlord  
8th son are you kiding me  
high school prodigies have it easy in another world  
death march to a parallel world  
log horizon  
erased  
noblesse but dont know if it counts  
by the grace of the gods  
sao  
gate  
How not to summon a demon lord  
Ascendance of a Bookworm  
So I'm a Spider, So What?  
KonoSuba  
Saga of Tanya the Evil  
Darwin's Game  
BOFURI  
CHOYOYU  
Didn't I Say to Make My Abilities Average in the Next Life?!  
Misfit of Demon King Academy (no less Isekai than say Inuyasha. Not a true isekai, but isekai-adjacent)  
Dr. Stone (Same as Misfit of Demon King Academy)  
Deca-Dence (In a very complicated position, less of an isekai than Misfit, Inuyasha, or Dr. Stone, equal to SAO)  
Re:Creators  
Isekai Cheat Magician  
Okaasan Online (I genuinely dislike this show, but it's fine if you can get past the cringe)  
Demon Lord, Retry!  
Z/X (Card Game anime that doesn't play the game. It's like a discount store-brand Gate.)  
Ixion Saga DT (Honestly one of the best isekai out there. Watch it like you would watch The Room)  
.Hack (Because you mentioned SAO)

Empfehlungen  
?Your Name  
Spirited Away  
THE ANCIENT MAGUS' BRIDE

YOUJO SENKI MOVIE (für Schreibtisch ab 1:32:30)
