---
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-02-19 16:41
last-modified: 2024-03-05 18:55
archived: Saturday, 25 January 2025, 05:47:18 UTC+01:00
linter-yaml-title-alias: Archive
aliases:
  - Archive
tags:
  - categorisation
  - productivity
  - a/uP
  - access/archived
up:
  - - - 2024-02-14-04-51-59|Falen
  - - - 2024-02-19-14-53-26|Plan Categorisation
same:
  - - - 2024-02-19-16-33-27|Administration
  - - - 2024-02-19-17-21-22|Projects
  - - - 2024-02-19-16-44-17|Areas
  - - - 2024-02-19-17-25-31|Resources
down:
  - - - Add Archived Property and Tag to Archived Files
prev-version:
  - - - Archive in Categorisation System
next-version: [[Archive]]
---

# Archive

--- 

## Introduction

The structure of the archive follows a date and letter-based approach. The first layer is the year in which the file was archived and the second layer is the first letter of the file. [[No Further Layer Beyond Year and Letter in Archive]], there are various other systems to ensure findability, especially [[Topic Tags in Categorisation System]] and [[Breadcrumbs in Note-Taking System]] ([[2024-02-19-14-53-26#Systems to Ensure the Retrievability of Files|see also]]), any artificial structure beyond year and letter might just complicate things.

[[Add Archived Property and Tag to Archived Files]], this is primarily relevant to Obsidian and notes, as [[2024-02-19-17-29-15|Topic Tags]] are generally designed to be platform-independent, it should if applicable also assigned to every file.

---

## 2023

2023 was the first year with the archive system enacted. The original design follows a first-letter approach, with the to-be archive files placed correspondingly. In here are some of the earliest files of my entire Obsidian use.

---

## 2024

I started 2024 continuing the first-letter approach but ran into the problem in Obsidian that I switched naming the files to the unique names of date and time of creation (what meant that every note would be placed in the number folder). As my system developed in general and I realised that Resources is enough to categorise every topic by itself I switched to a mirrored version of Resources by year. The switch happened on 2024-03-08, every note before that is kept in the letter-based folders, every archived note after that is located in the new categories.