---
id: 185adb65-9112-4bff-84c0-af157dae19a6
title: Education Strategy
aliases: [Education Strategy]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-07-21 17:48
archived: 2025-01-14 05:14
last-modified: 2024-07-21 17:53
access: archived
language: en
tags: [strategy, education, personal-development, access/archived]
---

# Education Strategy

--- 

## Overview

*Brief description of the strategy and its objectives.*

This strategy covers everything related to formal education. It aims to provide a clear path through the school systems.

--- 

## Domain

- [[2024-06-10-17-43-18|Personal Development Domain]]

--- 

## Goals

- Cover everything relevant related to formal education
- Provide a clear path forward

---

## Grundschule

Successfully concluded.

--- 

## Gymnasium

Successfully concluded.

--- 

## Universität

### Bayreuth

Studied law from WS 19/20 to SS 20

### Munich

Studied law from WS 21/22 to SS 23. Discontinued studies in law.

### Reutlingen

--- 

## Research and Resources

- *Gather information, data, and resources related to the topic.*
- *Include articles, books, tools, apps, and expert advice.*
- *Example: Workout plans, dietary guidelines, career coaching materials.*
- [Resource 1]
- [Resource 2]

--- 

## Ideas and Brainstorming

- *Free-form notes on potential projects, initiatives, and activities.*
- *Capture creative thoughts and innovative solutions.*
- *Example: "Explore different types of exercises like HIIT and yoga."*

--- 

## Related Frameworks

- [Link to Framework 1]
- [Link to Framework 2]

--- 

## Related Implementations

- [Link to Implementation 1]
- [Link to Implementation 2]

---

## Review and Updates

- **Last Reviewed**: [Date] 
- **Next Review**: [Date] 
- **Notes**: Any notes from the last review or general observations. 
- **Adjustments**: Changes made based on the last review or due to new information.

--- 

## Conclusion

*Summary of current state of the strategy, any immediate next steps, and long-term plans.*
