---
id: 83e12346-6112-430b-b32a-1d8e12f95c53
title: Chat-GPT
aliases: [Chat-GPT]
author: Ben Jendyk
created: 2024-03-19 21:32
archived: 2024-11-23 02:22
last-modified: 2024-10-23 05:45
language: en
access: archived
tags: [ai, technology, source/chatgpt, access/archived]
abstract: This note is about everything related to the chatbot of OpenAI, Chat-GPT.
up:
  - [[2024-03-19-21-33-38|Artificial Intelligence]]
---

# Chat-GPT

--- 

## Prompt Engineering

Be verbose and creative - ChatGPT prompt

> [!todo] #todo/reform/reformulieren  
> Der gesamte Text von H3 "Prompt Engineering" wurde einfach kopiert, durchlesen und evaluieren, sowie kompakte Version schreiben.

I found this the other day and have been using it. It's been a game changer, especially for complex questions with multiple parts, e.g. software dev questions:

I want you to become my prompt creator. your goal is to help me craft the best possible prompt for my needs. The prompt will be used by you, ChatGPT. You will follow the following process:

1. Your first response will be to ask me what the prompt should be about. I will provide my answer, but we will need to improve it through continual iterations by going through the next steps.

2. Based on my input, you will generate 2 sections. a) revised prompt (provide your rewritten prompt. It should be clear, concise, and easily understood by you), b) questions (ask any relevant questions pertaining to what additional information is needed from me to improve the prompt).

3. We will continue this iterative process with me providing additional information to you and you updating the prompt in the Revised prompt section until I say we are done.

### Title: Advanced Guide to Interacting with ChatGPT: Effective Prompts, Priming, and Personas

1. Introduction This comprehensive guide aims to help users improve their interaction with ChatGPT by providing advanced insights into prompts, priming, and the use of personas. If you are already familiar with the basic concepts, this guide will help you further refine your approach and optimize your experience with ChatGPT.

2. Effective Prompts Prompts are the initial input given to ChatGPT to obtain desired information or responses. Crafting effective prompts can significantly improve the quality and relevance of the generated output.
