---
id: 7d6bf17d-eb6c-4c00-81de-a5aa9e01c090
type: note
title: Questions
abstract: ''
archived: 2023-10-26 19:41
tags: access/archived
aliases: [Questions]
---
> [!Info]
> up:: [[+Asterix first user test (board)]]
> same::
> down::
> next::
> prev::
> ---
> see also::
> on::
> notes::
> ---
> template:: [[ONLY USE UNIQUE Note (template)|Note]]  
> version:: 1

# Feedback 20230206175331

1. Was it easy to navigate through the conversation and find what you were looking for?
2. Was the information provided by the chatbot helpful and clear?
3. Did you feel the chatbot fully answered your questions or was there anything you felt was missing?
4. Would you recommend this service to a friend or colleague?
5. How would you rate your overall experience using the chatbot on a scale of 1 to 10?
6. Is there anything you would like to see added or changed in future iterations of the chatbot?

---
1. How would you rate your overall experience with the chatbot on a scale of 1 to 10?
2. Were the answers provided by the chatbot helpful to you?
3. Was the language used by the chatbot easy for you to understand?
4. Were the answers provided by the chatbot accurate in your opinion?
5. What was your preferred tone of the chatbot's responses?
6. Was the format of the chatbot's answers helpful to you or would you have preferred a different format?
7. Was the level of detail provided by the chatbot sufficient or would you have preferred more/less information?
8. Was there anything in the conversation or experience that you found confusing or frustrating?
9. How did the chatbot compare to other legal resources you have used in the past?
10. Do you have any suggestions or improvements you would like to see in the chatbot?
11. Is there anything you think the chatbot could have done better in your opinion?
